Produced by Louise Hope , Peter Vachuska , Suzanne Lybarger and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http : //www.pgdp.net [ Illustration ( Frontispiece ) : 1 . Craterellus cornucopioides . 2 . Cortinarius armillatus . 3 . Clitocybe laccata . 4 . Tremellodon gelatinosum . ] AMONG THE MUSHROOMS A Guide for Beginners by ELLEN M. DALLAS and CAROLINE A. BURGIN [ Illustration ] Toronto / London Drexel Biddle , Publisher NEW YORK 67 Fifth Avenue PHILADELPHIA 228 South Fourth St. SAN FRANCISCO 319-325 Sansome St. 1900 Copyright , 1900 By A. J. DREXEL BIDDLE Press of DREXEL BIDDLE , PHILADELPHIA `` _Have you not seen in the woods on a late autumn morning a poor fungus or mushroom -- a plant without any solidity , nay , that seemed nothing but a soft mush or jelly -- by its constant total and inconceivably gentle pushing , manage to break its way up through the frosty ground , and actually to lift a hard crust on its head ? It is the symbol of the power of kindness._ '' Emerson . PREFACE . The books which have been consulted in the preparation of this work are , '' British Fungi , '' by Rev . John Stevenson ; `` British Fungus-Flora , '' by George Massee ; `` Mushrooms and their Uses , '' and `` Boleti of the United States , '' by Professor Charles H. Peck , State Botanist of New York ; '' Moulds , Mildew and Mushrooms , '' by Professor L. M. Underwood ; and a pamphlet by Mr. C. G. Lloyd , entitled `` The Volv of the United States . '' No attempt has been made to do more than to put in popular language the statements of experienced botanists , and so to arrange the matter as to aid beginners in their work . Thanks are due to Mr. Harold Wingate for his suggestions and corrections of the manuscript ; to Mr. C. G. Lloyd for permission to print from his photographs ; to Miss Laura C. Detwiller for her paintings from nature , which have been here reproduced ; and also to Mrs. Harrison Streeter and Miss Mary W. Nichols for their encouragement of the undertaking and suggestions in furtherance of its success . CONTENTS . [ Transcriber 's Note : The structure of the Table of Contents does not correspond perfectly to the book itself , but all page numbers are correct . ] Page Introduction , 13 Mushrooms , 23 Antiquity of Fungi , 23 Manner of Growth , 24 Odor , 26 Duration , 27 Uses , 27 Habitat , 28 Structure and growth , 29 Mycelium , 31 The Stem , 34 The Gills , 34 The Spores , 36 The Volva and Veil , 37 The Tubes or Pores , 38 Classification of Fungi , Distinctive Characteristics of Genera . 39 Hymenomycetes , 41 Gasteromycetes , 59 Ascomycetes , 64 By Color of the Spores , 72 General Helps to the Memory , 68 Descriptions of Fungi arranged According to Color of Cap only , 77 Red or Pink , 77 Yellow or Orange , 88 Gray , 100 Green , 106 White , 107 Brown , 115 Purple or Violet , 129 Description of Some Familiar Mushrooms , without regard to color , 131 Direction for Using Keys , 147 Key to Hymenomycetes , 149 Key to Polyporei , 152 Key to Hydnei , 152 Key to Thelephorei , 152 Key to Clavariei , 153 Key to Gasteromycetes and Ascomycetes , 153 Glossary , 155 Index to Descriptions of Fungi , 161 Guide for Determining Genera of Agarics in four Tables , 165 LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS . FACING PAGE Craterellus cornucopioides -- Cortinarius armillatus -- Clitocybe laccata -- Tremellodon gelatinosum . _Frontispiece._ Coprinus atramentarius , 26 Amanita vaginata , 37 Omphalia alboflava , 47 Russula pectinata , 76 Lactarius insulsus , 92 Amanita vaginata , 101 Psathyrella disseminata , 116 Lepiota procera , 120 Boletus edulis -- Hypholoma perplexum -- Marasmius rotula -- Calostoma cinnebarinus , 129 Cortinarius distans , 147 INTRODUCTION . This book is intended for those who , though ignorant on the subject , desire to know something about mushrooms . The first question which such an one asks upon finding a mushroom is , `` What is its name ? '' If there is no one near to tell him , then follows the second inquiry , `` How can I find it out for myself ? '' If wild flowers were concerned , Gray 's little book , `` How the Plants Grow , '' could be used ; and there is also Mrs. Dana 's book on `` The Wild Flowers , '' that has given so much pleasure . In the case of mushrooms , however , but one answer can be returned to all questions : `` There is no American text-book on mushrooms , there is no manual for beginners . '' There are many books on British fungi for students , but we want some popular work easy to understand , with no technical expressions . This necessity for a simple guide-book has been felt by many . Let us give our own experience . We procured a list of works on fungi , and looked for some volume not too deep for our comprehension nor too costly for our purse . Among those we found were `` Handbook for Students '' ( Taylor ) ; `` Edible and Poisonous Fungi '' ( Cooke ) , and a pamphlet by Professor Peck , `` Mushrooms and Their Uses . '' This seemed to be the one that we could comprehend most easily , and so , armed with it , and another pamphlet by Professor Underwood , called `` Suggestions to Collectors of Fleshy Fungi , '' which contained a simple key , we started out to make discoveries . We afterward procured some publications of Mr. C. G. Lloyd , which were of great assistance , and lastly a glossary published by the Boston Mycological Society , a necessary addition to our library . We found Professor Peck 's book was confined to edible mushrooms , and it soon became too limited to satisfy our craving for further knowledge -- it incited a longing to know something of inedible fungi . The rest is soon told . We were advised to get either a copy of Stevenson 's `` British Fungi '' or of Massee 's works . We did so , but found them too advanced to be readily used by the unlearned . Then the idea arose , How can we help others in their difficulties ? This little book is the answer . It will not be of use to advanced students , they will only criticise and discover how much has been left unsaid ; but the beginner is more easily satisfied with the extent of information gained , and if a taste for knowledge is encouraged the object of this book is attained . This explanation will also account for the use of simple terms . We find a tiny fungus which looks like a brownish bird 's nest , with some miniature eggs in it , or a shining white mushroom , and we are told its name in Latin ; it is described in terms meaningless to the ignorant , we lose interest , and our attention flags . We began for pleasure and recreation , but it became irksome and fatiguing , and the subject which might have amused us and helped to pass many an idle hour is put aside and abandoned . Yet this study is a most fascinating one . We all long for pleasant subjects of thought in our leisure hours , and there can be nothing more diverting and absorbing than the investigation of the beautiful and familiar plants around us . When we leave the bustling , noisy streets of a city and go into the quiet fields and woods the contrast is very great . A walk for exercise alone is often dull and tiresome . We can not be assured of pleasant companions , nor is there always a fine view or picturesque scenery to reward us during our strolls , but there are plants to be found and gathered , and when these fail us , then the bright-hued mushrooms may arrest our attention . The discovery of new specimens , the learning their names , the knowledge of their curious organizations , will all add an interest to our lives . It will inspire us with a love of nature , and open our eyes to many objects of which we have before been unobservant . Besides this it obliges us to be accurate . Our descriptions must be exact or they are of no use . Let us imagine ourselves taking a stroll in the woods or down some shady lane , and see what we can find there . The golden-rod and asters adorn the roadsides , the odors of the sweet gale and scented fern are wafted gratefully to our senses as we pass along the lanes , and there , among the fallen leaves , at the very edge of the woods , peers out a bright yellow mushroom , brighter from the contrast to the dead leaves around , and then another , close by , and then a shining white cap ; further on a mouse-colored one , gray , and silky in texture . What a contrast of colors . What are they ? By what names shall we call them ? Let us first carefully dig up the yellow one . We have brought a basket and trowel , and can examine them thoroughly . We must dig down deep so as not to break off the stem . There is a ring or collar around it near the top . There is a bulb at the base , with some slight membrane attached . The cap is orange color , almost smooth , covered with a few spots like warts , and there are some lines on the margin . The gills are not attached to the stem , and are white with a creamy hue . The stem is also white , tinged faintly with yellow . We will take a penknife and divide it into halves , cutting straight through the stem and cap . We find the stem is filled with a spongy substance , and we can now see more clearly the position of the gills . Our specimen measures 2 inches across the cap , and the stem is 2 or 3 inches long . It is an Amanita , resembling the Fly Amanita , which we will probably soon discover . Our fungus is Frost's Amanita , named after the botanist who first placed it on the list , Frost . It is not among the British fungi . It is American . Now let us dig up the shining white one . It is much larger than the yellow fungus , handsome , pure-looking , with a rather slender stem . The cap is nearly 4 inches across , the flesh is white . The stem is long , solid , with a bulbous base . There is a wide , loose ring high up on the stem . The membrane around the base is large and thick . The stem is scaly and shining white like the cap . This pure-looking , handsome mushroom is one of the most poisonous of its kind . It is called Amanita virosa -- the poisonous Amanita , from a Latin word meaning poison . We have never found any specimen with insects on it . They seem to know its deadly qualities and shun its acquaintance . Let us look at the gray mushroom and see how it differs from the others . It has no ring , its color is a soft gray or mouse color , the margin is deeply grooved . The cap is almost flat , the flesh does not reach to the margin , and is white . It is very smooth , but another time we might find the same mushroom with scales upon it . The cap measures 3 inches across . The stem tapers upward , is slender , and is 4 inches long . The gills are free , not attached to the stem , and are swollen in the middle . They are not very close together and are shining white . The base extends deep into the ground , and is sheathed with a membrane that is loose and easily broken off . It is a very common mushroom , and we shall often find it , but it varies in color ; it is sometimes umber , often white , and even has a faint yellowish or greenish hue in the centre . So far we have only looked at Amanitas . They are conspicuous , and the large rings and colors are striking and interesting to the novice ; but look at that clay bank that borders on our road , and perhaps we may discover some Boleti . Even a beginner in the study of mushrooms can tell the difference between a boletus and those we have been examining . Here are two or three mushrooms growing together . What is there different about them ? We see no ring , no membrane around the base of stem , and what are these tubes beneath the cap so unlike the gills of the others ? They have the appearance somewhat of a sponge . These are the pores or tubes that contain the spores . Let us divide the fungus . At the first touch of the knife , through the stem , the color begins to change , and in a moment stem , tubes , and cap turn to a bright blue . We can see the color steal along , at first faintly , and then deepen into a darker blue . The cap is a light brownish yellow color , 2 inches broad , covered with woolly scales . The tubes are free from the stem . They have been white , but are changing to yellow . The mouths or openings of the tubes are becoming bluish-green . The stem is swollen in the middle . It is covered with a bloom . It is stuffed with a pith , and tapers toward the apex . It is like the cap in color , and measures 1 inch in length . The mouths of the tubes are round . This is Boletus cyanescens , or the bluing Boletus , as named by Professor Peck in his work on Boleti . He says it grows more in the North , and sometimes is much larger than the one we found . We turn to the bank in hopes of discovering another , and see , instead , what appears to be a mass of jelly half-hidden in the clay , and in the midst some bright scarlet cherries , or at least something that resembles them . We take the trowel and loosen them from the earth , and there , among the gelatinous matter , we find small round balls as large as a common marble , covered by a bright red skin . When cut in half we see they are filled with a pure white substance , like the inside of a young puff-ball . This is quite a discovery . We must look in our books for its name . It is not in our British manual , but we learn from Professor Peck that it is called Calostoma cinnabarinus . Calostoma is a Greek word meaning beautiful mouth , and cinnabarinus is taken from cinnabaris , which means dragon's-blood . We are not responsible for the names given to plants , but can not help wishing that some might be changed or shortened . We could go on prolonging our search , and describe many wonderful fungi , so easily found on a summer day , but as our object is to excite curiosity and interest and not fatigue the reader , we will here pause , and afterward arrange the descriptions of mushrooms in a separate section . The ones we have described may be found in the Middle States and in New England . MUSHROOMS . ANTIQUITY OF FUNGI . Fungi have existed from early geological ages . They flourished in the Carboniferous period , when the enormous beds of coal were formed , a space of time that occupied many millions of years . Bessey says that the oldest known member of the order of membrane fungi , Hymenomycetes , was called by the name of `` Polyporites Bowmanii . '' During the Tertiary period members of the genera now known under the names of Lenzites , Polyporus , and Hydnum were all in existence . It is interesting to know that even before the Tertiary period the undergrowth consisted of ferns and fleshy fungi . What a time of delight for the botanist ! But there were no human beings in those days to roam amongst that luxuriant undergrowth , and only the fossil remains in the deposits of coal and peat are left to tell of their former existence . MANNER OF GROWTH . Fungi are either solitary , grow in clusters , in groups , or in rings and arcs of circles . The species called the Fairy mushroom , Marasmius oreades , is the most familiar of all those that grow in rings . Besides this there is the Horse mushroom , Agaricus arvensis ; the Chantarelle , Cantharellus cibarius ; 