Produced by Aaron Reed and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http : //www.pgdp.net RAMBLES IN THE MAMMOTH CAVE , DURING THE YEAR 1844 , BY A VISITER . By Alexander Clark Bullitt LOUISVILLE , KY. : MORTON & GRISWOLD . 1845 . Entered according to Act of Congress , in the year 1845 , by MORTON & GRISWOLD , in the Clerk 's Office of the District Court of Kentucky . Printed by MORTON & GRISWOLD . ERRATA . Page 11th , fifth line from the bottom ; for _faltering_ , read pattering . Page 46th , eighth line from the top -- '' They are well furnished , and , without question , _would with_ good and comfortable accommodations , pure air , and uniform temperature , cure the pulmonary consumption . _The_ invalids in the Cave ought to be cured , & c. , '' _read_ , They are well furnished , and , without question , _if_ good and comfortable accommodations , pure air , and uniform temperature , _could_ cure the pulmonary consumption , _the_ invalids in the Cave ought to be cured . Page 101 , last line : read , `` It has no brother : it _is like_ no brother . '' PUBLISHER 'S ADVERTISEMENT . To meet the calls so frequently made upon as by intelligent visitors to our City , for some work descriptive of the Mammoth Cave , we are , at length , enabled to present the public a succinct , but instructive narrative of a visit to this `` Wonder of Wonders , '' from the pen of a gentleman , who , without professing to have explored ALL that is curious or beautiful or sublime in its vast recesses , has yet seen every thing that has been seen by others , and has described enough to quicken and enlighten the curiosity of those who have never visited it . Aware of the embarrassment which most persons experience who design visiting the Cave , owing to the absence of any printed itinerary of the various routes leading to it , we have supplied , in the present volume , this desideratum , from information received from reliable persons residing on the different roads here enumerated . The road from Louisville to the Cave , and thence to Nashville , is graded the entire distance , and the greater part of it M'Adamized . From Louisville to the mouth of Salt river , twenty miles , the country is level , with a rich alluvial soil , probably at some former period the bed of a lake . A few miles below the former place and extending to the latter , a chain of elevated hills is seen to the South-East , affording beautiful and picturesque situations for country seats , and strangely overlooked by the rich and tasteful . The river is crossed by a ferry , and the traveler is put down at a comfortable inn in the village of West Point . Two miles from the mouth of Salt river , begins the ascent of Muldrow 's Hill . The road is excellent , and having elevated hills on either side , is highly romantic to its summit , five miles . From the top of this hill to Elizabethtown , the country is well settled , though the improvements are generally indifferent -- the soil thin , but well adapted to small-grain , and oak the prevailing growth . Elizabethtown , twenty-five miles from the mouth of Salt river , is quite a pretty and flourishing village , built chiefly of brick , with several churches and three large inns . From this place to Nolin creek , the distance is ten miles . Here there is a small town , containing some ten or twelve log houses , a large saw and grist mill , and a comfortable and very neat inn , kept by Mr. Mosher . Immediately after crossing this creek , the traveler enters `` Yankee Street , '' as the inhabitants style this section of the road . For a distance of ten or twelve miles from Nolin toward Bacon creek , the land belongs , or did belong to the former Postmaster General , Gideon Granger , and on either side of the road , to the extent of Mr. G. 's possessions , are settlements made by emigrants from New York and the New England States . From Bacon creek to Munfordsville , eight miles , the country is pleasantly undulating , and here , indeed the whole route from Elizabethtown to the Cave , passes through what was until recently a Prairie , or , in the language of the country , '' Barrens , '' and renders it highly interesting , especially to the botanist , from the multitude and variety of flowers with which it abounds during the Spring and Autumn months . Munfordsville , and Woodsonville directly opposite , are situated on Green river , on high and broken ground . They are small places , in each of which , however , are comfortable inns . Boats laden with tobacco and other produce , descend from this point and from a considerable distance above , to New Orleans . About two and a half miles beyond Munfordsville , the new State road to the Cave , ( virtually made by Dr. Croghan , at a great expense , ) leaves the Turnpike , and joins it again at the Dripping Springs , eight miles below , on the route to Nashville . This road , in going from Louisville to Nashville , is not only the shortest by three and a half miles , but to the Cave it is from ten to twelve miles shorter than the one taken by visiters previous to its construction . It therefore lessens the inconvenience , delay and consequent expense to which travelers were formerly subjected . The road itself is an excellent one , the country through which it passes highly picturesque , and Dr. Croghan has entitled himself to the gratitude of the traveling community by his liberality and enterprise in constructing it . Persons visiting the Cave by Steamer , ( a boat leaves Louisville for Bowling-Green every week ) will find much to interest them in the admirable locks and dams , rendering the navigation of Green river safe and good at all seasons for boats of a large class . Passengers can obtain conveyances at all times and at moderate rates , from Bowling-Green , by the Dripping Spring , to the Cave , distant twenty-two miles . Fifteen miles of this road is M'Adamized , the remainder is graded and not inferior to the finished portion . The last eight miles from the Dripping Spring to the Cave , can not fail to excite the admiration of every one who delights in beholding wild and beautiful scenery . A visit to the Cedar Springs on this route , is alone worth a journey of many miles . Passengers on the upper turnpike , from Bardstown to Nashville , can , on reaching Glasgow , at all times procure conveyances to the Cave , either by Bell 's or by Prewett 's Knob . Arrived at the Cave , the visitor alights at a spacious hotel , the general arrangements , attendance and _cuisine_ of which , are adapted to the most fastidious taste . He feels that as far as the `` creature comforts '' are necessary to enjoyment , the prospect is full of promise ; nor will he be disappointed . And now , this first and most important preliminary to a traveler settled to his perfect content , he may remain for weeks and experience daily gratification , `` _Stephen_ his guide , '' in wandering through some of its two hundred and twenty-six avenues -- in gazing , until he is oppressed with the feeling of their magnificence , at some of its forty-seven domes , -- in listening , until their drowsy murmurs pain the sense , to some of its many water-falls , -- or haply intent upon discovery , he hails some new vista , or fretted roof , or secret river , or unsounded lake , or crystal fountain , with as much rapture as Balboa , from `` that peak in Darien , '' gazed on the Pacific ; he is assured that he `` has a poet , '' and an historian too . Stephen has linked his name to dome , or avenue , or river , and it is already immortal -- in the Cave . Independent of the attractions to be found in the Cave , there is much above ground to gratify the different tastes of visiters . There is a capacious ball-room , ninety feet by thirty , with a fine band of music , -- a ten-pin alley , -- romantic walks and carriage-drives in all directions , rendered easy of access by the fine road recently finished . The many rare and beautiful flowers in the immediate vicinity of the Cave , invite to exercise , and bouquets as exquisite as were ever culled in garden or green-house , may be obtained even as late as August . The fine sport the neighborhood affords to the hunter and the angler -- Green river , just at hand , offers such `` store of fish , '' as father Walton or his son and disciple Cotton , were they alive again , would love to meditate and angle in ! -- and the woods ! Capt . Scott or Christopher North himself , might grow weary of the sight of game , winged or quadruped . INTERESTING FACTS . 1 . Accidents of no kind have ever occurred in the Mammoth Cave . 2 . Visiters , going in or coming out of the Cave , are not liable to contract colds ; on the contrary , colds are commonly relieved by a visit in the Cave . 3 . No impure air exists in any part of the Cave . 4 . Reptiles , of no description , have ever been seen in the Cave ; on the contrary , they , as well as quadrupeds , avoid it . 5 . Combustion is perfect in all parts of the Cave . 6 . Decomposition and consequent putrefaction are unobservable in all parts of the Cave . 7 . The water of the Cave is of the purest kind ; and , besides fresh water , there are one or two sulphur springs . 8 . There are two hundred and twenty-six Avenues in the Cave ; forty-seven Domes ; eight Cataracts , and twenty-three Pits . 9 . The temperature of the Cave is 59 Fahrenheit , and remains so , uniformly , winter and Summer . 10 . No sound , not even the loudest peal of thunder , is heard one quarter of a mile in the Cave . * * * * * The author of `` Rambles in the Mammoth Cave , '' has written a scientific account of the Cave , embracing its Geology , Mineralogy , etc. , which we could not , in time , insert in this publication . TABLE OF DISTANCES . FROM LOUISVILLE TO MAMMOTH CAVE . Medley 's 10 miles . Mouth Salt River 10 Trueman 's 8 Haycraft 's 7 Elizabethtown 9 Nolin 9 Lucas 11 Munfordsville 10 Mammoth Cave 14-1/2 -- -- -- 88-1/2 miles . FROM LEXINGTON TO MAMMOTH CAVE . Harrodsburgh 20 miles . Perryville 10 Frosts 12 Young 4 Lebanon 7 New Market 12 Barbee 6 Somerville 3 Carters 5 Moss 5 Mitchell 12 Curls 7 Greens 10 Dickeys 8 Mammoth Cave 9 -- - 130 miles . FROM GLASGOW TO MAMMOTH CAVE , via Dickeys 18 miles . FROM NASHVILLE TO MAMMOTH CAVE . Gees 9 miles . Tyree Springs 13 Buntons 12 Franklin 10 Bowling Green 20 Pattersons 12 Dripping Springs 3 Mammoth Cave 8 -- 87 miles . FROM BARDSTOWN TO MAMMOTH CAVE . New Haven 15 miles . McDougals 10 McAchran ( Cobb 's stand ) 12 Bear Wallow 20 Dickeys ( Prewett 's Knob ) 7 Mammoth Cave 9 -- 73 miles . FROM BARDSTOWN TO MAMMOTH CAVE , via . MUNFORDSVILLE . McAchran ( Cobb 's stand ) 37 miles . Munfordsville 12 Mammoth Cave 14-1/2 -- -- -- 63-1/2 miles . FROM GLASGOW TO MAMMOTH CAVE , via . Bells 18 miles . CONTENTS . CHAPTER I . Mammoth Cave -- Where Situated -- Green River -- Improved Navigation -- Range of Highlands -- Beautiful Woodlands -- Hotel -- Romantic Dell -- Mouth of the Cave -- Coldness of the Air -- Lamps Lighted -- Bones of a Giant -- Violence of the Wind -- Lamps Extinguished -- Temperature of the Cave -- Lamps Relighted -- First Hopper -- Grand Vestibule -- Glowing Description -- Audubon Avenue -- Little Bat Room -- Pit two hundred and eighty feet deep -- Main Cave -- Kentucky Cliffs -- The Church Second Hopper -- Extent of the Saltpetre Manufacture in 1814 . CHAPTER II . Gothic Gallery -- Gothic Avenue -- Good Road -- Mummies -- Interesting Account of Them -- Gothic Avenue , once called Haunted Chamber -- Why so named -- Adventure of a Miner in former days . CHAPTER III . Stalagmite Pillars -- The Bell -- Vulcan 's Furnace -- Register Rooms -- Stalagmite Hall or Gothic Chapel -- Devil 's Arm-Chair -- Elephant's Head -- Lover 's Leap -- Napoleon 's Dome -- Salts Cave -- Annetti 's Dome . CHAPTER IV . The Ball-Room -- Willie 's Spring -- Wandering Willie -- Ox-Stalls -- Giant's Coffin -- Acute-Angle or Great Bend -- Range of Cabins -- Curative Properties of the Cave Air long known . CHAPTER V. Star Chamber -- Salts Room -- Indian Houses -- Cross Rooms -- Black Chambers -- A Dinner Party -- Humble Chute -- Solitary Cave -- Fairy Grotto -- Chief City or Temple -- Lee 's Description -- Return to the Hotel . CHAPTER VI . Arrival of a large Party -- Second Visit -- Lamps Extinguished -- Laughable Confusion -- Wooden Bowl -- Deserted Chambers -- Richardson's Spring -- Side-Saddle Fit -- The Labyrinth -- Louisa 's Dome -- Gorin's Dome -- Bottomless Fit -- Separation of our Party . CHAPTER VII . Pensico Avenue -- Cheat Crossings -- Pine Apple Bush -- Angelica 's Grotto Winding Way -- Fat Friend in Trouble -- Relief Hall -- Bacon Chamber Bandits Hall . CHAPTER VIII . Mammoth Dome -- First Discoverers -- Little Dave -- Tale of a Lamp -- Return . CHAPTER IX . Third Visit -- River Hall -- Dead Sea -- River Styx -- Lethe -- Echo River -- Purgatory -- Eyeless Fish -- Supposed Level of the Rivers -- Sources and Outlet Unknown . CHAPTER X . Pass of El Ghor -- Silliman 's Avenue -- Wellington 's Gallery -- Sulphur Spring -- Mary 's Vineyard -- Holy Sepulchre -- Commencement of Cleveland Avenue -- By whom Discovered -- Beautiful Formations -- Snow-ball Room -- Rocky Mountains -- Croghan 's Hall -- Serena 's Arbor -- Dining Table -- Dinner Party and Toast -- Hoax of the Guide -- Homeward Bound Passage -- Conclusion . CHAPTER I . Mammoth Cave -- Where Situated -- Green River -- Improved Navigation -- Range of Highlands -- Beautiful Woodlands -- Hotel -- Romantic Dell -- Mouth of the Cave -- Coldness of the Air -- Lamps Lighted -- Bones of a Giant -- Violence of the Wind -- Lamps Extinguished -- Temperature of the Cave -- Lamps Lighted -- First Hoppers -- Grand Vestibule -- Glowing Description -- Audubon Avenue -- Little Bat Room -- Pit Two-Hundred and Eighty Feet Deep -- Main Cave -- Kentucky Cliffs -- The Church -- Second Hoppers -- Extent of the Saltpetre Manufacture in 1814 . The Mammoth Cave is situated in the County of Edmondson and State of Kentucky , equidistant from the cities of Louisville and Nashville , ( about ninety miles from each , ) and immediately upon the nearest road between those two places . Green River is within half a mile of the Cave , and since the improvements in its navigation , by the construction of locks and dams , steam-boats can , at all seasons , ascend to Bowling Green , distant but twenty-two miles , and , for the greater part of the year , to the Cave itself . In going to the Cave from Munfordsville , you will observe a lofty range of barren highlands to the North , which approaches nearer and nearer the Cave as you advance , until it reaches to within a mile of it . This range of highlands or cliffs , composed of calcareous rock , pursuing its rectilinear course , is seen the greater part of the way as you proceed on towards Bowling Green ; and , at last , looses itself in the counties below . Under this extensive range of cliffs it is conjectured that the great subterranean territory mainly extends itself . For a distance of two miles from the Cave , as you approach it from the South-East , the country is level . It was , until recently , a prairie , on which , however , the oak , chestnut and hickory are now growing ; and having no underbrush , its smooth , verdant openings present , here and there , no unapt resemblance to the parks of the English nobility . Emerging from these beautiful woodlands , you suddenly have a view of the hotel and adjacent grounds , which is truly lovely and picturesque 