He was a sour , small , bilious man , with a long face and very dark eyes ; fifty-six years old , sound and active in body , and with an air somewhat between that of a shepherd and that of a man following the sea . He never laughed , that I heard ; read long at the Bible ; prayed much , like the Cameronians he had been brought up among ; and indeed , in many ways , used to remind me of one of the hill-preachers in the killing times before the Revolution . But he never got much comfort , nor even , as I used to think , much guidance , by his piety . He had his black fits when he was afraid of hell ; but he had led a rough life , to which he would look back with envy , and was still a rough , cold , gloomy man . As he came in at the door out of the sunlight , with his bonnet on his head and a pipe hanging in his button-hole , he seemed , like Rorie , to have grown older and paler , the lines were deeplier ploughed upon his face , and the whites of his eyes were yellow , like old stained ivory , or the bones of the dead . 'Ay ' he repeated , dwelling upon the first part of the word , 'the _Christ- Anna_ . It 's an awfu ' name . ' I made him my salutations , and complimented him upon his look of health ; for I feared he had perhaps been ill. 'I 'm in the body , ' he replied , ungraciously enough ; 'aye in the body and the sins of the body , like yoursel ' . Denner , ' he said abruptly to Mary , and then ran on to me : 'They 're grand braws , thir that we hae gotten , are they no ? Yon 's a bonny knock { 15 } , but it 'll no gang ; and the napery's by ordnar . Bonny , bairnly braws ; it 's for the like o ' them folk sells the peace of God that passeth understanding ; it 's for the like o ' them , an ' maybe no even sae muckle worth , folk daunton God to His face and burn in muckle hell ; and it 's for that reason the Scripture ca 's them , as I read the passage , the accursed thing . Mary , ye girzie , ' he interrupted himself to cry with some asperity , 'what for hae ye no put out the twa candlesticks ? ' 'Why should we need them at high noon ? ' she asked . But my uncle was not to be turned from his idea . 'We 'll bruik { 16 } them while we may , ' he said ; and so two massive candlesticks of wrought silver were added to the table equipage , already so unsuited to that rough sea- side farm . 'She cam ' ashore Februar ' 10 , about ten at nicht , ' he went on to me . 'There was nae wind , and a sair run o ' sea ; and she was in the sook o' the Roost , as I jaloose . We had seen her a ' day , Rorie and me , beating to the wind . She wasnae a handy craft , I 'm thinking , that _Christ-Anna_ ; for she would neither steer nor stey wi ' them . A sair day they had of it ; their hands was never aff the sheets , and it perishin ' cauld -- ower cauld to snaw ; and aye they would get a bit nip o ' wind , and awa ' again , to pit the emp'y hope into them . Eh , man ! but they had a sair day for the last o't ! He would have had a prood , prood heart that won ashore upon the back o ' that . ' 'And were all lost ? ' I cried . 'God held them ! ' 'Wheesht ! ' he said sternly . 'Nane shall pray for the deid on my hearth- stane . ' I disclaimed a Popish sense for my ejaculation ; and he seemed to accept my disclaimer with unusual facility , and ran on once more upon what had evidently become a favourite subject . 'We fand her in Sandag Bay , Rorie an ' me , and a ' thae braws in the inside of her . There 's a kittle bit , ye see , about Sandag ; whiles the sook rins strong for the Merry Men ; an ' whiles again , when the tide 's makin ' hard an ' ye can hear the Roost blawin ' at the far-end of Aros , there comes a back-spang of current straucht into Sandag Bay . Weel , there 's the thing that got the grip on the _Christ-Anna_ . She but to have come in ram-stam an ' stern forrit ; for the bows of her are aften under , and the back-side of her is clear at hie-water o ' neaps . But , man ! the dunt that she cam doon wi ' when she struck ! Lord save us a ' ! but it 's an unco life to be a sailor -- a cauld , wanchancy life . Mony 's the gliff I got mysel ' in the great deep ; and why the Lord should hae made yon unco water is mair than ever I could win to understand . He made the vales and the pastures , the bonny green yaird , the halesome , canty land -- And now they shout and sing to Thee , For Thou hast made them glad , as the Psalms say in the metrical version . No that I would preen my faith to that clink neither ; but it 's bonny , and easier to mind . `` Who go to sea in ships , '' they hae't again -- And in Great waters trading be , Within the deep these men God 's works And His great wonders see . Weel , it 's easy sayin ' sae . Maybe Dauvit wasnae very weel acquant wi' the sea . But , troth , if it wasnae prentit in the Bible , I wad whiles be temp'it to think it wasnae the Lord , but the muckle , black deil that made the sea . There 's naething good comes oot o't but the fish ; an ' the spentacle o ' God riding on the tempest , to be shure , whilk would be what Dauvit was likely ettling at . But , man , they were sair wonders that God showed to the _Christ-Anna_ -- wonders , do I ca ' them ? Judgments , rather : judgments in the mirk nicht among the draygons o ' the deep . And their souls -- to think o ' that -- their souls , man , maybe no prepared ! The sea -- a muckle yett to hell ! ' I observed , as my uncle spoke , that his voice was unnaturally moved and his manner unwontedly demonstrative . He leaned forward at these last words , for example , and touched me on the knee with his spread fingers , looking up into my face with a certain pallor , and I could see that his eyes shone with a deep-seated fire , and that the lines about his mouth were drawn and tremulous . Even the entrance of Rorie , and the beginning of our meal , did not detach him from his train of thought beyond a moment . He condescended , indeed , to ask me some questions as to my success at college , but I thought it was with half his mind ; and even in his extempore grace , which was , as usual , long and wandering , I could find the trace of his preoccupation , praying , as he did , that God would 'remember in mercy fower puir , feckless , fiddling , sinful creatures here by their lee-lane beside the great and dowie waters . ' Soon there came an interchange of speeches between him and Rorie . 'Was it there ? ' asked my uncle . 'Ou , ay ! ' said Rorie . I observed that they both spoke in a manner of aside , and with some show of embarrassment , and that Mary herself appeared to colour , and looked down on her plate . Partly to show my knowledge , and so relieve the party from an awkward strain , partly because I was curious , I pursued the subject . 'You mean the fish ? ' I asked . 'Whatten fish ? ' cried my uncle . 'Fish , quo ' he ! Fish ! Your een are fu' o ' fatness , man ; your heid dozened wi ' carnal leir . Fish ! it 's a bogle ! ' He spoke with great vehemence , as though angry ; and perhaps I was not very willing to be put down so shortly , for young men are disputatious . At least I remember I retorted hotly , crying out upon childish superstitions . 'And ye come frae the College ! ' sneered Uncle Gordon . 'Gude kens what they learn folk there ; it 's no muckle service onyway . Do ye think , man , that there 's naething in a ' yon saut wilderness o ' a world oot wast there , wi ' the sea grasses growin ' , an ' the sea beasts fechtin ' , an ' the sun glintin ' down into it , day by day ? Na ; the sea 's like the land , but fearsomer . If there 's folk ashore , there 's folk in the sea -- deid they may be , but they 're folk whatever ; and as for deils , there 's nane that's like the sea deils . There 's no sae muckle harm in the land deils , when a 's said and done . Lang syne , when I was a callant in the south country , I mind there was an auld , bald bogle in the Peewie Moss . I got a glisk o ' him mysel ' , sittin ' on his hunkers in a hag , as gray 's a tombstane . An ' , troth , he was a fearsome-like taed . But he steered naebody . Nae doobt , if ane that was a reprobate , ane the Lord hated , had gane by there wi ' his sin still upon his stamach , nae doobt the creature would hae lowped upo ' the likes o ' him . But there 's deils in the deep sea would yoke on a communicant ! Eh , sirs , if ye had gane doon wi ' the puir lads in the _Christ-Anna_ , ye would ken by now the mercy o ' the seas . If ye had sailed it for as lang as me , ye would hate the thocht of it as I do . If ye had but used the een God gave ye , ye would hae learned the wickedness o ' that fause , saut , cauld , bullering creature , and of a' that 's in it by the Lord 's permission : labsters an ' partans , an ' sic like , howking in the deid ; muckle , gutsy , blawing whales ; an ' fish -- the hale clan o ' them -- cauld-wamed , blind-eed uncanny ferlies . O , sirs , ' he cried , 'the horror -- the horror o ' the sea ! ' We were all somewhat staggered by this outburst ; and the speaker himself , after that last hoarse apostrophe , appeared to sink gloomily into his own thoughts . But Rorie , who was greedy of superstitious lore , recalled him to the subject by a question . 'You will not ever have seen a teevil of the sea ? ' he asked . 'No clearly , ' replied the other . 'I misdoobt if a mere man could see ane clearly and conteenue in the body . I hae sailed wi ' a lad -- they ca 'd him Sandy Gabart ; he saw ane , shure eneueh , an ' shure eneueh it was the end of him . We were seeven days oot frae the Clyde -- a sair wark we had had -- gaun north wi ' seeds an ' braws an ' things for the Macleod . We had got in ower near under the Cutchull'ns , an ' had just gane about by soa , an ' were off on a lang tack , we thocht would maybe hauld as far's Copnahow . I mind the nicht weel ; a mune smoored wi ' mist ; a fine gaun breeze upon the water , but no steedy ; an ' -- what nane o ' us likit to hear -- anither wund gurlin ' owerheid , amang thae fearsome , auld stane craigs o ' the Cutchull'ns . Weel , Sandy was forrit wi ' the jib sheet ; we couldnae see him for the mains'l , that had just begude to draw , when a' at ance he gied a skirl . I luffed for my life , for I thocht we were ower near Soa ; but na , it wasnae that , it was puir Sandy Gabart 's deid skreigh , or near hand , for he was deid in half an hour . A't he could tell was that a sea deil , or sea bogle , or sea spenster , or sic-like , had clum up by the bowsprit , an ' gi'en him ae cauld , uncanny look . An ' , or the life was oot o ' Sandy 's body , we kent weel what the thing betokened , and why the wund gurled in the taps o ' the Cutchull'ns ; for doon it cam ' -- a wund do I ca ' it ! it was the wund o ' the Lord 's anger -- an ' a' that nicht we foucht like men dementit , and the niest that we kenned we were ashore in Loch Uskevagh , an ' the cocks were crawin ' in Benbecula . ' 'It will have been a merman , ' Rorie said . 'A merman ! ' screamed my uncle with immeasurable scorn . 'Auld wives' clavers ! There 's nae sic things as mermen . ' 'But what was the creature like ? ' I asked . 'What like was it ? Gude forbid that we suld ken what like it was ! It had a kind of a heid upon it -- man could say nae mair . ' Then Rorie , smarting under the affront , told several tales of mermen , mermaids , and sea-horses that had come ashore upon the islands and attacked the crews of boats upon the sea ; and my uncle , in spite of his incredulity , listened with uneasy interest . 'Aweel , aweel , ' he said , 'it may be sae ; I may be wrang ; but I find nae word o ' mermen in the Scriptures . ' 'And you will find nae word of Aros Roost , maybe , ' objected Rorie , and his argument appeared to carry weight . When dinner was over , my uncle carried me forth with him to a bank behind the house . It was a very hot and quiet afternoon ; scarce a ripple anywhere upon the sea , nor any voice but the familiar voice of sheep and gulls ; and perhaps in consequence of this repose in nature , my kinsman showed himself more rational and tranquil than before . He spoke evenly and almost cheerfully of my career , with every now and then a reference to the lost ship or the treasures it had brought to Aros . For my part , I listened to him in a sort of trance , gazing with all my heart on that remembered scene , and drinking gladly the sea-air and the smoke of peats that had been lit by Mary . Perhaps an hour had passed when my uncle , who had all the while been covertly gazing on the surface of the little bay , rose to his feet and bade me follow his example . Now I should say that the great run of tide at the south-west end of Aros exercises a perturbing influence round all the coast . In Sandag Bay , to the south , a strong current runs at certain periods of the flood and ebb respectively ; but in this northern bay -- Aros Bay , as it is called -- where the house stands and on which my uncle was now gazing , the only sign of disturbance is towards the end of the ebb , and even then it is too slight to be remarkable . When there is any swell , nothing can be seen at all ; but when it is calm , as it often is , there appear certain strange , undecipherable marks -- sea-runes , as we may name them -- on the glassy surface of the bay . The like is common in a 