Indeed , so disquieted was I at the possible prospect of any one getting hold of a mass of manuscript in old days diligently compiled by myself from year to year in several small diaries , that I have long ago ruthlessly made a holocaust of the heap of such written self-memories , fearing their posthumous publication ; and in this connection let me now add my express protest against the printing hereafter of any of my innumerable private letters to friends , or other MSS. , unless they are strictly and merely of a literary nature . Biography , where honest and true , is no doubt one of the most fascinating and instructive phases of literature ; but it requires a higher Intelligence than any ( however intimate ) friend of a man to do it fairly and fully ; so many matters of character and circumstance must ever be to him unknown , and therefore will be by him unrecorded . And even as to autobiography , who , short of the Omniscient Himself , can take into just account the potency of outward surroundings , and still more of inborn hereditary influences , over both mind and body ? the bias to good or evil , and the possession or otherwise of gifts and talents , due very much ( under Providence ) to one 's ancient ancestors and one 's modern teachers ? We are each of us morally and bodily the psychical and physical composite of a thousand generations . Albeit every individual possesses as his birthright a freewill to turn either to the right or to the left , and is liable to a due responsibility for his words and actions , still the Just Judge alone can and must make allowance for the innate inclinings of heredity and the outward influences of circumstance , and He only can hold the balance between the guilt and innocence , the merit or demerit , of His creature . So far as my own will goes , I leave my inner spiritual biography to the Recording Angel , choosing only to give some recollections and memories of my outer literary life . For spiritual self-analysis in matters of religion and affection I desire to be as silent as I can be ; but in such a book as this absolute taciturnity on such subjects is practically impossible . For the matter , then , of autobiography , I decline its higher and its deeper aspects ; as also I wish not to obtrude on the public eye mere domesticities and privacies of life . But mainly lest others less acquainted with the petty incidents of my career should hereafter take up the task , I accede with all frankness and humility to what seems to me like a present call to duty , having little time to spare at seventy-six , so near the end of my tether , -- and protesting , as I well may , against the charge of selfish egotism in a book necessarily spotted on every page with the insignificant letter I ; and while , of course on human-nature principles , willing enough to exhibit myself at the best , promising also not to hide the second best , or worse than that , where I can perceive it . That shrewd old philosopher , Benjamin Franklin , thus excuses his own self-imposed task of `` autobiography , '' and I can not do better than quote and adopt his wise and just remarks : -- '' In thus employing myself , I shall yield to the inclination so natural to old men , of talking of themselves and their own actions , and I shall indulge it without being tiresome to those who , from respect to my age , might conceive themselves obliged to listen to me , since they will always be free to read me or not . And ( I may as well confess it , as the denial would be believed by nobody ) I shall , perhaps , not a little gratify my own vanity . Indeed , I never heard or saw the introductory words , 'Without vanity I may say , ' & c. , but some vain thing immediately followed . Most people dislike vanity in others , whatever share they may have of it themselves ; but I give it fair quarter wherever I meet with it , being persuaded that it is often productive of good to the possessor , and to others who are within his sphere of action ; and therefore , in many cases , it would not be altogether absurd if a man were to thank God for his _vanity_ among the other comforts of life . `` And now I speak of thanking God , I desire , with all humility , to acknowledge that I attribute the happiness of my past life to His divine providence , which led me to the means I used , and gave the success . My belief of this induces me to _hope_ , though I must not _presume_ , that the same goodness will still be exercised towards me in continuing that happiness or enabling me to bear a fatal reverse , which I may experience as others have done ; the complexion of my future fortune being known to Him only in whose power it is to bless us , even in our afflictions . '' Thus speaketh the honest wisdom of Benjamin Franklin . * * * * * I do not see that a better plan can be chosen for carrying out the title of this book than the one I have adopted , namely , tracing from the earliest years to old age the author 's literary lifework , illustrated by accounts of , and specimens from , his various books and writings , especially those which are absolutely out of print , or , haply have never been published . No doubt , in such excerpts , exhibited at their best , the critical accusations of unfairness , self-seeking , and so forth , will be made , and may be met by the true consideration that something of this sort is inevitable in autobiography . However , for the matter of vanity , all I know of myself is the fact that praise , if consciously undeserved , only depresses me instead of elating ; that a noted characteristic of mine through life has been to hide away in the rear rather than rush to the front , unless , indeed , forced forward by duty , when I can be bold enough , if need be ; and that one defect in me all know to be a dislike to any assumption of dignity -- surely a feeling the opposite to self-conceit ; whilst , if I am not true , simple , and sincere , I am worse than I hope I am , and all my friends are deceived in their kind judgment of me . But let this book speak for itself ; I trust it is honest , charitable , and rationally religious . If I have ( and I show it through all my writings ) a shrinking from priestcraft of every denomination , that feeling I take to be due to some ancient heredity ingrained , or , more truly , inburnt into my nature from sundry pre-Lutheran confessors and martyrs of old , from whom I claim to be descended , and by whose spirit I am imbued . Not but that I profess myself broad , and wide , and liberal enough for all manner of allowances to others , and so far as any narrow prejudices may be imagined of my idiosyncrasy , I must allow myself to be changeable and uncertain -- though hitherto having steered through life a fairly straight course -- and that sometimes I can even doubt as to my politics , whether they should be defined Whig or Tory ; as to my religion , whether it is most truly chargeable by the epithet high or low ; as to my likings , whether I best prefer solitude or society ; as to literature , whether gaieties or gravities please me most . In fact , I recognise good in everything , though sometimes hidden by evil , right ( by intention , at least ) in sundry doctrines and opinions otherwise to my judgment wrong , and I am willing to believe the kindliest of my opponents who appear to be honest and earnest . This is a very fair creed for a citizen of the world , whose motto is Terence 's famous avowal , '' Homo sum , humani nihil a me alienum puto . '' CHAPTER II . INFANCY AND SCHOOLDAYS . In a short and simple way , then , and without any desire ostentatiously to `` chronicle small beer , '' as Iago sneers it , I suppose it proper to state very briefly when and where I was born , with a word as to my parentage . July 17 , 1810 , was my birthday , and No . 20 Devonshire Place , Marylebone , my birthplace , at that time the last house of London northward . My father , Martin Tupper , a name ever honoured by me , was an eminent medical man , who twice refused a baronetcy ( first from Lord Liverpool , and secondly , as offered by the Duke of Wellington ) ; my mother , Ellin Devis Marris , being daughter of Robert Marris , a good landscape artist , of an old Lincolnshire family , and made the heiress , as adopted child , of her aunt , Mrs. Ellin Devis , of Devonshire Place and Albury . My father 's family have sojourned 336 years in Guernsey , having migrated thither from Thuringia , _vi_ Hesse Cassel , owing to religious persecution in the evil days of Charles V. , our remote ancestors being styled Von Topheres ( chieftains , or head-lords ) of Treffurth ( as is recorded in the heraldic MSS . of the British Museum ) , that being the origin of our name . Of my mother 's family ( in old time Maris , as `` of the sea , '' with mermaids for heraldry ) , I have the commissions of one who was an Ironside cavalry officer , signed by Cromwell and Fairfax ; and several of her relatives ( besides her father ) were distinguished artists . In particular , her uncle ( my wife 's father ) , Arthur William Devis , the well-known historical painter , and her great-uncle , Anthony Devis , who filled Albury House with his landscapes . Some of our old German stock crossed the Atlantic in Puritan times , and many of the name have attained wealth and position both in Canada and the United States ; notably Sir Charles Tupper northwards , and sundry rich merchants in New York , Virginia , and the Carolines southwardly . Of my infancy let me record that I `` enjoyed '' very delicate health , chiefly due , as I now judge , to the constant cuppings and bleedings whereby `` the faculty '' of those days combated teething fits , and ( perhaps with Malthusian proclivities ) killed off young children . I remember , too , that the broad meadows , since developed into Regent 's Park and Primrose Hill , then `` truly rural , '' and even up to Chalk Farm , then notorious for duels , were my nursery ramblings in search of cowslips and new milk . Also , that once at least in those infantile days , my father took me to see Winsor 's Patent Gaslights at Carlton House , and how he prognosticated the domestic failure of so perilous an explosive , more than one blowing-up having carelessly occurred . * * * * * Another infantile recollection is memorable , as thus . My father 's annual holiday happened one year to be at Bognor , where a patron patient of his , Lord Arran , rented a pleasant villa , and he had for a visitor at the time no less a personage than George the Third : it must have been during some lucid interval , perhaps after the Great Thanksgiving at St. Paul 's . My father took his little boy with him to call upon the Earl , not thinking to see the King ; but when we came in there was his kind-hearted Majesty , who patted my curls and gave me his blessing ! How far the mysterious efficacy of the royal touch affected my after career believers in the divine rights and spiritual powers of a king may speculate as they please . At all events I got a good man 's blessing . I remember also in my nursery days to have heard this curious story of a dream . My father , when a young man , was a student at Guy 's Hospital , from which school of medicine he went to Yarmouth to attend the wounded after the battle of Copenhagen . He was on one occasion leaving Guernsey for Southampton in the clumsy seagoing smack of those days , when , on the night before embarking , he dreamt that on his way to the harbour he crossed the churchyard and fell into an open grave . Telling this to his parents at `` The Pollet , '' they would not let him go , with a sort of superstitious wisdom ; for , strangely enough , the smack was seized on its voyage by a privateer , and all the crew and passengers were consigned -- for twelve years -- to a French prison ! I have heard my father tell this tale , and noted early how true was Dr. Watts ' awkward line , '' On little things what great depend . '' I might say more about warnings in dreams and other somnolencies , whereof we all have experiences . For instance , my `` Dream of Ambition '' in Proverbial Philosophy was a real one . And this reminds me now of another like sort of spiritual monition alluded to in my Proverbial Essay on `` Truth in Things False , '' which has several times occurred to myself , as this , for example : Years ago , in Devonshire , for the first time , I was on the top of a coach passing through a town -- I think it was Crediton -- and I had the strange feeling that I had seen all this before : now , we changed horses just on this side of a cross street , and I resolved within myself to test the truth of the place being new to me or not , by prophesying what I should see right and left as we passed ; to my consternation it was all as I had foreseen , -- a market-place with the usual incidents . Now , if reasonably asked how to account for this ( and most of us have felt the like ) , I reply that possibly in an elevated state of health and spirits the soul may outrun the body , and literally foresee coming events both real and ideal . But we must leave this to the Psychical Society for a judgment upon the famous Horatian philosophy of `` more things in heaven and earth , '' & c. * * * * * On Mr. Galton 's topic of hereditary talent I have little to report as to myself . Neither father nor mother had any leanings either towards verse or prose ; but my mother was an excellent pianiste and a fair landscape painter both in oils and water-colour ; also she drew and printed on stone , and otherwise showed that she came of an artistic family . As to my father 's surroundings , his brother Peter , a consul-general in Spain , wrote a tragedy called Pelayo ; and I possess half-a-dozen French songs , labelled by my father `` in my late dear father 's handwriting , '' but whether or not original , I can not tell . As a Guernseyman , he might well be as much French as English . They seem to me clever and worthy of Beranger , though long before him : possibly they are my grandsire 's . A very fair judge of French poetry , and himself a good Norman poet , Mr. John Sullivan of Jersey writes and tells me that the songs are excellent , and that he remembers them to have been popularly sung when he was a boy . About the matter of hereditary bias itself , we know that as with animals so with men , `` fortes creantur fortibus , et bonis ; '' this so far as bodies are concerned ; but surely spirits are more individual , as innumerable instances prove , where children do not take after their parents . If , however , I may mention my own small experience of this matter , literary talent , or at all events authorship , _is_ hereditary , especially in these days of that general epidemic , the `` cacoethes scribendi . '' * * * * * I wrote this paper following originally for an American publication ; and as I can not improve upon it , and it has never been printed in England , I produce it here in its integrity . A true and genuine record of what English schools of the highest class 