THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE , AMUSEMENT , AND INSTRUCTION . VOL . 10 , No . 287 . ] SATURDAY , DECEMBER 15 , 1827 . [ PRICE 2d . * * * * * [ Illustration : NEW STEAM CARRIAGE . ] Explanation of the References . 1 . The Guide and Engineer , to whom the whole management of the machinery and conduct of the carriage is intrusted . Besides this man , a guard will be employed . 2 . The handle which guides the Pole and Pilot Wheels . 3 . The Pilot Wheels . 4 . The Pole . 5 . The Fore Boot , for luggage . 6 . The `` Throttle Valve '' of the main steam-pipe , which , by means of the handle , is opened or closed at pleasure , the power of the steam and the progress of the carriage being thereby regulated from 1 to 10 or 20 miles per hour . 7 . The Tank for Water , running from end to end , and the full breadth of the carriage ; it will contain 60 gallons of water . 8 . The Carriage , capable of holding six inside-passengers . 9 . Outside Passengers , of which the present carriage will carry 15 . 10 . The Hind Boot , containing the Boiler and Furnace . The Boiler is incased with sheet-iron , and between the pipes the coke and charcoal are put , the front being closed in the ordinary way with an iron door . The pipes extend from the cylindrical reservoir of water at the bottom to the cylindrical chamber for steam at the top , forming a succession of lines something like a horse-shoe , turned edgeways . The steam enters the '' separators '' through large pipes , which are observable on the Plan , and is thence conducted to its proper destination . 11 . `` Separators , '' in which the steam is separated from the water , the water descending and returning to the boiler , while the steam ascends , and is forced into the steam-pipes or main arteries of the machine . 12 . The Pump , by which the water is pumped from the tank , by means of a flexible hose , to the reservoir , communicating with the boiler . 13 . The Main Steam Pipe , descending from the `` separators , '' and proceeding in a direct line under the body of the coach to the `` throttle valve '' ( No . 6 , ) and thence , under the tank , to the cylinders from which the pistons work . 14 . Flues of the Furnace , from which there is no smoke , coke and charcoal being used . 15 . The Perches , of which there are three , conjoined , to support the machinery . 16 . The Cylinders . There is one between each perch . 17 . Valve Motion , admitting steam alternately to each side of the pistons . 18 . Cranks , operating on the axle : at the ends of the axle are crotches ( No . 21 , ) which , as the axle turns round , catch projecting pieces of iron on the boxes of the wheels , and give them the rotatory motion . The hind wheels only are thus operated upon . 19 . Propellers , which , as the carriage ascends a hill , are set in motion , and move like the hind legs of a horse , catching the ground , and then forcing the machine forward , increasing the rapidity of its motion , and assisting the steam power . 20 . The Drag , which is applied to increase the friction on the wheel in going down a hill . This is also assisted by diminishing the pressure of the steam -- or , if necessary , inverting the motion of the wheels . 21 . The Clutch , by which the wheel is sent round . 22 . The Safety Valve , which regulates the proper pressure of the steam in the pipe . 23 . The Orifice for filling the Tank . This is done by means of a flexible hose and a funnel , and occupies but a few seconds . * * * * * Mr. Goldsworthy Gurney , whose name is already familiar to most of our readers , after a variety of experiments , during the last two years , has completed a STEAM CARRIAGE on a new principle ; or , as a wag said the other day , he has at length _brought his plan to bear_ . We have , accordingly , procured a drawing of this extraordinary invention , which we shall proceed to describe generally , since the letters , introduced in the annexed Engraving , with the accompanying references , will enable our readers to enter into the details of the machinery : -- First , as to its _safety_ , upon which point the public are most sceptical . In the present invention , it is stated , that , even from the bursting of the boiler , there is not the most distant chance of mischief to the passengers . This boiler is tubular , constructed upon philosophical principles , and upon a plan totally distinct from any thing previously in use . Instead of being , as in ordinary cases , a large vessel closed on all sides , with the exception of the valves and steam conductors , which a high pressure or accidental defect may burst , it is composed of a succession of welded iron pipes , perhaps forty in number , screwed together in the manner of the common gas-pipes , at given distances , extending in a direct line , and in a row , at equal distances from a small reservoir of water , to the distance of about a yard and a half , and then curving over in a semi-circle of about half a yard in diameter , returning in parallel lines to the pipes beneath , to a reservoir above , thus forming a sort of inverted horse-shoe . This horse-shoe of pipes , in fact , forms the boiler , and the space between is the furnace ; the whole being enclosed with sheet-iron . The advantage of this arrangement is obvious ; for , while more than a sufficient quantity of steam is generated for the purposes requited , the only possible accident that could happen would be , the bursting of one of these barrels , and a temporary diminution of the steam-power of one-fortieth part . The effects of the accident could , of course , only be felt within its own enclosure ; and the Engineer could , in ten minutes , repair the injury , by extracting the wounded barrel , and plugging up the holes at each end ; but the fact is , that such are the proofs to which these barrels are subjected , before they are used , by the application of a steam-pressure five hundred times more than can ever be required , that the accident , trifling as it is , is scarcely possible . A contemporary journal illustrates Mr. Gurney 's invention by the following analogy : -- '' It will appear not a little singular that Mr. Gurney , who was educated a medical man , has actually made the construction of the human body , and of animals in general , the model of his invention . His reservoirs of steam and water , or rather '_separators_ , ' as they are called , and which are seen at the end of our plate , are , as it were , the heart of his steam apparatus , the lower pipes of the boiler are the arteries , and the upper pipes the veins . The water , which is the substitute for blood , is first sent from the reservoirs into the pipes -- the operation of fire soon produces steam , which ascends through the pipes to the upper part of the reservoir , carrying with it a portion of water into the separators , which of course descends to the lower part , and returns to fill the pipes which have been exhausted by the evaporation of the steam -- the steam above pressing it down with an elastic force , so as to keep the arteries or pipes constantly full , and preserve a regular circulation . In the centre of the _separators_ are perforated steam pipes , which ascend nearly to the tops , these tops being of course closed , so as to prevent the escape of the steam . Through these pipes the steam descends with its customary force , and is conducted by one main pipe all along under the carriage to the end of the platform , which is , in point of fact , the _water tank_ , where it turns under till it reaches two large branch pipes which communicate with the cylinders , from which the pistons move and give motion to the machinery . The cranks of the axle are thus set in action , and the rotatory movement is given to the wheels . By the power thus engendered also a pump is worked , and which , by means of a flexible hose , pumps the water into the boiler , keeping the supply complete . The tank and furnace , it is calculated will hold sufficient water and fuel for one hour 's consumption , the former being sixty gallons . '' The vehicle resembles the ordinary stage-coaches , but is rather larger and higher . Coke or charcoal are to form the fuel , by which means smoke will be avoided ; the flues will be above the level of the seated passenger , and it is calculated that the motion of the carriage will always disperse the heated rarefied air from the flues . The present carriage would carry six inside and fifteen outside passengers , independent of the guide , who is also the engineer . In front of the coach is a very capacious boot ; while behind , that which assumes the appearance of a boot is the case for the boiler and the furnace . The length of the vehicle , from end to end , is fifteen feet , and , with the pole and pilot-wheels , twenty feet . The diameter of the hind wheels is five feet ; of the front wheels three feet nine inches ; and of the pilot-wheels three feet . There is a treble perch , by which the machinery is supported , and beneath which two propellers , in going up a hill , may be set in motion , somewhat similar to the action of a horse 's legs under similar circumstances . In descending a hill , there is a break fixed on the hind wheel to increase the friction ; but independent of this , the guide has the power of lessening the force of the steam to any extent , by means of the lever to his right hand , which operates upon , what is called the _throttle valve_ , and by which he may stop the action of the steam altogether , and effect a counter vacuum in the cylinders . By this means also he regulates the rate of progress on the road , going at a pace of two miles or ten miles per hour , or even quicker if necessary . There is another lever also by which he can stop the vehicle _instanter_ , and , in fact , in a moment reverse the motion of the wheels , so as to prevent accident , as is the practice with the paddles of steam-vessels . The guide , who sits in front , keeps the vehicle in its proper course , by means of the pilot-wheels acting upon the pole , like the handle of a garden-chair . The weight of the carriage and its apparatus is estimated at 1-1/2 tons , and its wear and tear of the road , as compared with a carriage drawn by four horses , is as one to six . When the carriage is in progress the machinery is not heard , nor is there so much vibration as in an ordinary vehicle , from the superior solidity of the structure . The engine has a twelve-horse power , but may be increased to sixteen ; while the actual power in use , except in ascending a hill , is but eight-horse . The success of the present improved invention is stated to be decided ; but the public will shortly have an opportunity of judging for themselves , as several experimental journeys are projected . If it should attain its anticipated perfection , the contrivance will indeed be a proud triumph of human ingenuity , which , aided by its economy , will doubtless recommend it to universal patronage . Mr. Gurney has already secured a patent for his invention ; and he has our best wishes for his permanent success . * * * * * HISTORICAL FACTS RELATIVE TO THE EARLY CONDITION OF THE ENGLISH . ( _For the Mirror._ ) London , in early times ( King Ethelred 's reign ) consisted only of scattered buildings from Ludgate to Westminster , and none where the heart of the city now is ; it was afterwards extended more westward and continued increasing -- -eastward being neglected until a more later period . Who can view its present well constructed houses , its numerous elegant squares and terraces , and its general superior appearance , without almost doubting that the inhabitants of Britain once dwelt in the most miserable habitations , regardless in every respect of comfort and cleanliness . Indeed , at an early period we seem to have been in a very wretched condition . Without carrying ourselves too far back , we will look at the state of the English about the year 1520 , ( Henry the Eighth 's reign . ) The houses were built entirely regardless of all that health and comfort could suggest . The situation of the doors and windows was never thought of , and the former only opened . The floors were made either of clay , or sand , covered with rushes , which were very seldom removed . [ 1 ] Some few houses were built of stone , but generally they were composed of wood , coated over with _mud_ , or cement , with straw or reed roofs . Things seem to have been in no very enviable condition during this reign . The laws were little obeyed ; thefts and robbery were frequent , for `` 22,000 criminals are said to have been executed by the rigid justice of Henry VIII . '' It is not surprising that crime should have been great in this reign , for Henry himself was not only guilty of many crimes , but patronised vice in the regular system of bull and bear-baiting , particularly on _Sundays_ , about four in the afternoon , which exhibitions were attended by great crowds of persons of all classes . The accommodations of a royal establishment at this period are thus described : -- '' The apartments at Hampton Court had been furnished on a particular occasion , each with a candlestick , a basin , goblet and ewer of silver ; yet the furniture of Henry 's chamber , independent of the bed and cupboard , consisted only of a joint-stool , a pair of andirons , and a small mirror . The halls and chambers of the wealthy were replenished with a cupboard , long tables , or rather loose boards placed upon tressels , forms , a chair , and a few joint-stools . Carpets were only employed to garnish cupboards . '' The food in this reign appears to be in character with everything else . From a household book of the Earl of Northumberland , it appears that his family , during the winter , fed mostly on salt meat and salt fish , with `` an appointment of 160 gallons of mustard . '' On flesh days through the year , _breakfast_ for my lord and _lady_ was a loaf of bread , two manchets , a quart of beer , a quart of wine , half a chine of mutton , or a chine of beef , boiled . The earl had only two cooks to dress victuals for more than two hundred people . Hens , chickens , and partridges , were reckoned delicacies , and were forbidden except at my lord 's table . This excessive love for eating was not , however , confined to Henry's time , for about two centuries previous to this , ( Edward III . ) feasting was endeavoured to be restrained by a law , though Edward himself did not follow his own law , for when his `` son , Lionel , of Clarence , married Violentes , of Milant there were thirty courses , and the fragments fed 1,500 persons . '' The formation of London was but tardy and very irregular until the reign of Henry VIII . at which time , some extensive buildings and improvements were made . On the other hand , building seems at length to have gone on too rapidly , and caused such alarm , that about a century after Henry's reign , a proclamation was issued by James I. after mature deliberation , forbidding all new buildings within ten miles 