This book is a grievous failure -- that is , if the merits of books are to be adjudged with their titles . The writer is the author of _Stories of Waterloo_ , from whom better things might have been expected . He has taken for his model , Mr. Lloyd 's really excellent _Field Sports of the North of Europe_ ; but he has woefully missed his mark . The title of the work before us is equivocal : a reader might as reasonably expect the Sports of the Western World , as adventures in Ireland , such as make up the present volumes . What we principally complain of is the paucity of Sports among their contents . It is true that the title also promises Legendary Tales and Local Sketches , but here they are the substance , and the Wild Sports mere shadow . We have too little of `` the goodly rivers , '' '' all sorts of fish , '' `` the sweet islands and goodly lakes , like little inland seas , '' `` of the most beautiful and sweet countrey , '' as Spenser phrases it in the author 's title-page ; and there is not so much as the author promises in his preface , of shooting the wild moors and fishing the waters , of days spent by `` fell and flood , '' and light and joyous nights in mountain bivouacs and moorland huts . There is too much hearsay , and storytelling not to the purpose , and trifling gossip of '' exquisite potatoes '' and `` rascally sherry '' -- details which would disgrace a half-crown guide book , and ought certainly not to be set forth with spaced large type in hotpressed octavos at a costly rate . Nevertheless , the work may suit club-room tables and circulating libraries , though it will not be allowed place for vivid display of Wild Sports . We quote two extracts -- one , a narrative which the author knows to be substantially true ; the other , relating to the attack of eagles , ( though we omit the oft-told tale of the peasant attempting to rob an eagle 's nest , and his hair turning white with fright ) : -- _The Blind Seal._ About forty years ago a young seal was taken in Clew Bay , and domesticated in the kitchen of a gentleman whose house was situated on the sea-shore . It grew apace , became familiar with the servants , and attached to the house and family ; its habits were innocent and gentle , it played with the children , came at its master 's call , and , as the old man described him to me , was `` fond as a dog , and playful as a kitten . '' Daily the seal went out to fish , and after providing for his own wants , frequently brought in a salmon or turbot to his master . His delight in summer was to bask in the sun , and in winter to lie before the fire , or , if permitted , creep into the large oven , which at that time formed the regular appendage of an Irish kitchen . For four years the seal had been thus domesticated , when , unfortunately , a disease , called in this country _the crippawn_ -- a kind of paralytic affection of the limbs which generally ends fatally -- attacked some black cattle belonging to the master of the house ; some died others became infected , and the customary cure produced by changing them to drier pasture failed . A wise woman was consulted , and the hag assured the credulous owner , that the mortality among his cows was occasioned by his retaining an unclean beast about his habitation -- the harmless and amusing seal . It must be made away with directly , or the crippawn would continue , and her charms be unequal to avert the malady . The superstitious wretch consented to the hag 's proposal ; the seal was put on board a boat , carried out beyond Clare Island , and there committed to the deep , to manage for himself as he best could . The boat returned , the family retired to rest , and next morning a servant awakened her master to tell him that the seal was quietly sleeping in the oven . The poor animal over night came back to his beloved home , crept through an open window , and took possession of his favourite resting-place . Next morning another cow was reported to be unwell . The seal must now be finally removed ; a Galway fishing-boat was leaving Westport on her return home , and the master undertook to carry off the seal , and not put him overboard until he had gone leagues beyond Innis Boffin . It was done -- a day and night passed ; the second evening closed -- the servant was raking the fire for the night -- something scratched gently at the door -- it was of course the house-dog -- -she opened it , and in came the seal ! Wearied with his long and unusual voyage , he testified by a peculiar cry , expressive of pleasure , his delight to find himself at home , then stretching himself before the glowing embers of the hearth he fell into a deep sleep . The master of the house was immediately apprized of this unexpected and unwelcome visit . In the exigency , the beldame was awakened and consulted ; she averred that it was always unlucky to kill a seal , but suggested that the animal should be deprived of sight , and a third time carried out to sea . To this hellish proposition the besotted wretch who owned the house consented , and the affectionate and confiding creature was cruelly robbed of sight , on that hearth for which he had resigned his native element ! Next morning , writhing in agony , the mutilated seal was embarked , taken outside Clare Island , and for the last time committed to the waves . A week passed over , and things became worse instead of better ; the cattle of the truculent wretch died fast , and the infernal hag gave him the pleasurable tidings that her arts were useless , and that the destructive visitation upon his cattle exceeded her skill and cure . On the eighth night after the seal had been devoted to the Atlantic , it blew tremendously . In the pauses of the storm a wailing noise at times was faintly heard at the door ; the servants , who slept in the kitchen , concluded that the _Banshee_ came to forewarn them of an approaching death , and buried their heads in the bed-coverings . When morning broke the door was opened -- the seal was there lying dead upon the threshold ! '' `` Stop , Julius ! '' I exclaimed , `` give me a moment 's time to curse all concerned in this barbarism . '' `` Be patient , Frank , '' said my cousin , `` the _finale_ will probably save you that trouble . The skeleton of the once plump animal -- for , poor beast , it perished from hunger , being incapacitated from blindness to procure its customary food -- was buried in a sand-hill , and from that moment misfortunes followed the abettors and perpetrators of this inhuman deed . The detestable hag , who had denounced the inoffensive seal , was , within a twelvemonth , hanged for murdering the illegitimate offspring of her own daughter . Every thing about this devoted house melted away -- sheep rotted , cattle died , 'and blighted was the corn . ' Of several children none reached maturity , and the savage proprietor survived every thing he loved or cared for . He died _blind_ and miserable . `` There is not a stone of that accursed building standing upon another . The property has passed to a family of a different name , and the series of incessant calamity which pursued all concerned in this cruel deed is as romantic as true . '' _Visit to the Eagle 's Cliff , in Inniskea._ We ascended the hill ( while the crew were clearing and baiting their spillets ) in the vague hope of getting a shot at these predatory birds , of whose spoliations we had heard so much on the preceding evening . On reaching the bottom of the rock , in whose face the arie stands , we discovered that the old birds were absent , and as the nest was formed in a deep fissure , we could not ascertain its situation exactly . But that the eagles ' dwelling was above us was evident , enough : the base of the cliff was strewn with bones and feathers , and the accumulation of both was extraordinary . The bones of rabbits , hares , and domestic fowls , were most numerous , but those of smaller game , and various sorts of fish , were visible among the heap . Many attempts are annually made to destroy this predatory family . It is impossible to rob the nest . Situated two hundred feet above the base of the rock , it is of course unapproachable from below , and as the cliffs beetle over it frightfully , to assail it from above would be a hazardous essay . An enterprising peasant , some years since , was let down by a rope and basket , -- but he was fiercely attacked by the old birds , and the basket nearly overturned . Fortunately the cord was strong and had sufficient length to allow his being lowered rapidly , or he would have undoubtedly sustained some bodily injury from the wings and talons of those enraged and savage birds . The village of Dugurth suffers heavily from its unfortunate proximity to the arie . When the wind blows from a favourable point , the eagle in the grey of morning sweeps through the cabins , and never fails in carrying off some prey . To black fowls eagles appear particularly attached , and the villagers avoid as much as possible rearing birds of that colour . A few days before , one of the coast-guard , alarmed by the cries of a boy , rushed from the watch-house ; the eagle had taken up a black hen , and , as he passed within a few yards , the man flung his cap at him . The eagle dropped the bird ; it was quite dead , however , the talons having shattered the back-bone . The villagers say ( with what truth I know not ) that turkeys are never taken . That the eagle is extremely destructive to fish , and particularly so to salmon , many circumstances would prove . They are constantly discovered watching the fords in the spawning season , and are seen to seize and carry off the fish . One curious anecdote I heard from my friend the priest . Some years since a herdsman , on a very sultry day in July , while looking for a missing sheep , observed an eagle posted on a bank that overhung a pool . Presently the bird stooped and seized a salmon , and a violent struggle ensued ; when the herd reached the spot , he found the eagle pulled under water by the strength of the fish , and the calmness of the day , joined to drenched plumage , rendered him unable to extricate himself . With a stone the peasant broke the eagle 's pinion , and actually secured the spoiler and his victim , for he found the salmon dying in his grasp . When shooting on Lord Sligo 's mountains , near the Killeries , I heard many particulars of the eagle 's habit and history from a grey-haired peasant who had passed a long life in these wilds . The scarcity of hares , which here were once abundant , he attributed to the rapacity of those birds ; and he affirmed , that when in pursuit of these animals , the eagle evinced a degree of intelligence that appeared extraordinary . They coursed the hares , he said , with great judgment and certain success ; one bird was the active follower , while the other remained in reserve , at the distance of forty or fifty yards . If the hare , by a sudden turn , freed himself from his most pressing enemy , the second bird instantly took up the chase , and thus prevented the victim from having a moment's respite . He had remarked the eagles also while they were engaged in fishing . They chose a small ford upon the rivulet which connects Glencullen with Glandullagh , and posted on either side waited patiently for the salmon to pass over . Their watch was never fruitless , -- and many a salmon , in its transit from the sea to the lake , was transferred from his native element to the wild arie in the Alpine cliff ; that beetles over the romantic waters of Glencullen . [ The volumes are handsomely printed , and embellished with aqua-tint plates and clever vignettes : some of the latter , by Bagg , are spirited performances on wood . ] * * * * * PETER THE GREAT . [ What a mine of adventure and incident is the life of this extraordinary man . A modern French writer enumerates 95 authors who have treated of his actions , and concludes the list with _et cetera_ threefold . What a field for the editors of the compilation libraries -- wherein they may store their little garners or volumes to advantage . Such has the editor of the _Family Library_ done in the volume before us ; although he has only consulted one-fourth of the above number of authorities for his memoir of the life of the Tzar . He prefaces with the modest observation that he has done little more than bring together and arrange the scattered fragments of Histories , Lives , Anecdotes , and Notices , in manuscript and in print , `` of one of the most extraordinary characters that ever appeared on the great theatre of the world , in any age or country ; -- a Being full of contradictions , yet consistent in all that he did ; a promoter of literature , arts , and sciences , yet without education himself ; the civilizer of his people , 'he gave a polish , ' says Voltaire , 'to his nation , and was Himself a savage ; he taught his people the art of war , of which he was himself ignorant ; from the first glance of a small cock-boat , at the distance of five hundred miles of the nearest sea , he became an expert ship-builder , created a powerful fleet , partly constructed with his own hands , made himself an active and expert sailor , a skilful pilot , a great captain : in short , he changed the manners , the habits , the laws of the people , and very face of the country . '' How different is this course of activity to the usual luxurious lives of the sovereigns of civilized countries : how ill assort Peter 's `` savage '' notions with the accomplished ease and personal elegance of a succeeding autocrat : how wide is the contrast between Peter 's ship-building education , and the youth of a prince passed amidst court corruptionists -- or pilotage over the boundless ocean , and launching gilded pleasure-boats upon an unruffled lake ; personally watching the welfare of his subjects , or slinking into retirement , and leaving their interests to the intrigues of party . Yet , such are a few of the opposite characteristics -- the every-day occupations -- of the great Tzar of Russia , and of the kingships of the last and present centuries . The events of the life of Peter may be well known in detail to the reader of the history of modern Europe . Yet they must be gathered from many volumes ; while in the above little book we have them brought in amusing and sufficiently copious narrative , within 350 pages . We have here the Tzar 's war with Sweden -- Narva , Pultowa , and the Pruth ; but the incidents that will prove most interesting to the _Family_ readers are the domestic habits -- the unkingly life of Peter ; and above all , his visit to England -- how he drank deeply of pepper and brandy , lodged in Buckingham-street , Strand ; spoiled Mr. Evelyn 's holly hedge at Sayes ; and peeped from the roof of the House of Lords at the King upon his throne . We shall therefore endeavour to abridge a few of these entertaining anecdotic details from the chapter devoted to the Tzar's stay in England . ] Two ships of war and a yacht , under the orders of Admiral Mitchell , were despatched to Helvoetsluys to bring over the Tzar , who , with his suite , consisting of Menzikoff and some others , whose names are not mentioned , embarked at that port on the 18th of January , 1698 , and on the 21st reached London . Here no secret was attempted to be made of his rank , but he requested to be treated only as a private gentleman ; and it 