`To hell with the man , May he never grow fat , What carries two faces , Under one 'at . ' Rushton & Co. did a lot of work that summer . They did not have many big jobs , but there were a lot of little ones , and the boy Bert was kept busy running from one to the other . He spent most of his time dragging a handcart with loads of paint , or planks and steps , and seldom went out to work with the men , for when he was not taking things out to the various places where the philanthropists were working , he was in the paintshop at the yard , scraping out dirty paint-pots or helping Crass to mix up colours . Although scarcely anyone seemed to notice it , the boy presented a truly pitiable spectacle . He was very pale and thin . Dragging the handcart did not help him to put on flesh , for the weather was very hot and the work made him sweat . His home was right away on the other side of Windley . It took him more than three-quarters of an hour to walk to the shop , and as he had to be at work at six , that meant that he had to leave home at a few minutes past five every morning , so that he always got up about half past four . He was wearing a man 's coat - or rather jacket - which gave the upper part of his body a bulky appearance . The trousers were part of a suit of his own , and were somewhat narrowly cut , as is the rule with boys' cheap ready-made trousers . These thin legs appearing under the big jacket gave him a rather grotesque appearance , which was heightened by the fact that all his clothes , cap , coat , waistcoat , trousers and boots , were smothered with paint and distemper of various colours , and there were generally a few streaks of paint of some sort or other upon his face , and of course his hands - especially round the fingernails - were grimed with it . But the worst of all were the dreadful hobnailed boots : the leather of the uppers of these was an eighth of an inch thick , and very stiff . Across the fore part of the boot this hard leather had warped into ridges and valleys , which chafed his feet , and made them bleed . The soles were five-eighths of an inch thick , covered with hobnails , and were as hard and inflexible and almost as heavy as iron . These boots hurt his feet dreadfully and made him feel very tired and miserable , for he had such a lot of walking to do . He used to be jolly glad when dinner-time came , for then he used to get out of sight in some quiet spot and lie down for the whole hour . His favourite dining-place was up in the loft over the carpenter 's shop , where they stored the mouldings and architraves . No one ever came there at that hour , and after he had eaten his dinner he used to lie down and think and rest . He nearly always had an hour for dinner , but he did not always have it at the same time : sometimes he had it at twelve o'clock and sometimes not till two . It all depended upon what stuff had to be taken to the job . Often it happened that some men at a distant job required some material to use immediately after dinner , and perhaps Crass was not able to get it ready till twelve o'clock , so that it was not possible to take it before dinner-time , and if Bert left it till after dinner the men would be wasting their time waiting for it : so in such cases he took it there first and had his dinner when he came back . Sometimes he got back about half past twelve , and it was necessary for him to take out another lot of material at one o'clock . In such a case he `charged ' half an hour overtime on his time sheet - he used to get twopence an hour for overtime . Sometimes Crass sent him with a handcart to one job to get a pair of steps or tressels , or a plank , or some material or other , and take them to another job , and on these occasions it was often very late before he was able to take his meals . Instead of getting his breakfast at eight , it was often nearly nine before he got back to the shop , and frequently he had to go without dinner until half past one or two . Sometimes he could scarcely manage to carry the pots of paint to the jobs ; his feet were so hot and sore . When he had to push the cart it was worse still , and often when knocking-off time came he felt so tired that he could scarcely manage to walk home . But the weather was not always hot or fine : sometimes it was quite cold , almost like winter , and there was a lot of rain that summer . At such times the boy frequently got wet through several times a day as he went from one job to another , and he had to work all the time in his wet clothes and boots , which were usually old and out of repair and let in the water . One of the worst jobs that he had to do was when a new stock of white lead came in . This stuff came in wooden barrels containing two hundredweight , and he used to have to dig it out of these barrels with a trowel , and put it into a metal tank , where it was kept covered with water , and the empty barrels were returned to the makers . When he was doing this work he usually managed to get himself smeared all over with the white lead , and this circumstance , and the fact that he was always handling paint or some poisonous material or other was doubtless the cause of the terrible pains he often had in his stomach - pains that sometimes caused him to throw himself down and roll on the ground in agony . One afternoon Crass sent him with a handcart to a job that Easton , Philpot , Harlow and Owen were just finishing . He got there about half past four and helped the men to load up the things , and afterwards walked alongside the cart with them back to the shop . On the way they all noticed and remarked to each other that the boy looked tired and pale and that he seemed to limp : but he did not say anything , although be guessed that they were talking about him . They arrived at the shop a little before knocking-off time - about ten minutes past five . Bert helped them to unload , and afterwards , while they were putting their things away and `charging up ' the unused materials they had brought back , he pushed the cart over to the shed where it was kept , on the other side of the yard . He did not return to the shop at once and a few minutes later when Harlow came out into the yard to get a bucket of water to wash their hands with , he saw the boy leaning on the side of the cart , crying , and holding one foot off the ground . Harlow asked him what was the matter , and while he was speaking to him the others came out to see what was up : the boy said he had rheumatism or growing pains or something in his leg , `just here near the knee ' . But he did n't say much , he just cried miserably , and turned his head slowly from side to side , avoiding the looks of the men because he felt ashamed that they should see him cry . When they saw how ill and miserable he looked , the men all put their hands in their pockets to get some coppers to give to him so that he could ride home on the tram . They gave him fivepence altogether , more than enough to ride all the way ; and Crass told him to go at once - there was no need to wait till half past ; but before he went Philpot got a small glass bottle out of his tool bag and filled it with oil and turps - two of turps and one of oil - which he gave to Bert to rub into his leg before going to bed : The turps - he explained - was to cure the pain and the oil was to prevent it from hurting the skin . He was to get his mother to rub it in for him if he were too tired to do it himself . Bert promised to observe these directions , and , drying his tears , took his dinner basket and limped off to catch the tram . It was a few days after this that Hunter met with an accident . He was tearing off on his bicycle to one of the jobs about five minutes to twelve to see if he could catch anyone leaving off for dinner before before the proper time , and while going down a rather steep hill the front brake broke - the rubbers of the rear one were worn out and failed to act - so Misery to save himself from being smashed against the railings of the houses at the bottom of the hill , threw himself off the machine , with the result that his head and face and hands were terribly cut and bruised . He was so badly knocked about that he had to remain at home for nearly three weeks , much to the delight of the men and the annoyance - one might even say the indignation - of Mr Rushton , who did not know enough about the work to make out estimates without assistance . There were several large jobs to be tendered for at the same time , so Rushton sent the specifications round to Hunter 's house for him to figure out the prices , and nearly all the time that Misery was at home he was sitting up in bed , swathed in bandages , trying to calculate the probable cost of these jobs . Rushton did not come to see him , but he sent Bert nearly every day , either with some specifications , or some accounts , or something of that sort , or with a note inquiring when Hunter thought he would be able to return to work . All sorts of rumours became prevalent amongst the men concerning Hunter 's condition . He had `broken his spiral column ' , he had `conjunction of the brain ' , or he had injured his `innards ' and would probably never be able to `do no more slave-drivin '' . Crass - who had helped Mr Rushton to `price up ' several small jobs - began to think it might not be altogether a bad thing for himself if something were to happen to Hunter , and he began to put on side and to assume airs of authority . He got one of the light-weights to assist him in his work of colourman and made him do all the hard work , while he spent part of his own time visiting the different jobs to see how the work progressed . Crass 's appearance did him justice . He was wearing a pair of sporting trousers the pattern of which consisted of large black and white squares . The previous owner of these trousers was taller and slighter than Crass , so although the legs were about a couple of inches too long , they fitted him rather tightly , so much so that it was fortunate that he had his present job of colourman , for if he had had to do any climbing up and down ladders or steps , the trousers would have burst . His jacket was also two or three sizes too small , and the sleeves were so short that the cuffs of his flanelette shirt were visible . This coat was made of serge , and its colour had presumably once been blue , but it was now a sort of heliotrope and violet : the greater part being of the former tint , and the parts under the sleeves of the latter . This jacket fitted very tightly across the shoulders and back and being much too short left his tightly clad posteriors exposed to view . He however seemed quite unconscious of anything peculiar in his appearance and was so bumptious and offensive that most of the men were almost glad when Nimrod came back . They said that if Crass ever got the job he would be a dam ' sight worse than Hunter . As for the latter , for a little while after his return to work it was said that his illness had improved his character : he had had time to think things over ; and in short , he was ever so much better than before : but it was not long before this story began to be told the other way round . He was worse than ever ! and a thing that happened about a fortnight after his return caused more ill feeling and resentment against him and Rushton than had ever existed previously . What led up to it was something that was done by Bundy 's mate , Ted Dawson . This poor wretch was scarcely ever seen without a load of some sort or other : carrying a sack of cement or plaster , a heavy ladder , a big bucket of mortar , or dragging a load of scaffolding on a cart . He must have been nearly as strong as a horse , because after working in this manner for Rushton & Co. from six in the morning till half past five at night , he usually went to work in his garden for two or three hours after tea , and frequently went there for an hour or so in the morning before going to work . The poor devil needed the produce of his garden to supplement his wages , for he had a wife and three children to provide for and he earned only - or rather , to be correct , he was paid only - fourpence an hour . There was an old house to which they were making some alterations and repairs , and there was a lot of old wood taken out of it : old , decayed floorboards and stuff of that kind , wood that was of no use whatever except to burn . Bundy and his mate were working there , and one night , Misery came a few minutes before half past five and caught Dawson in the act of tying up a small bundle of this wood . When Hunter asked him what he was going to do with it he made no attempt at prevarication or concealment : he said he was going to take it home for fire-wood , because it was of no other use . Misery kicked up a devil of a row and ordered him to leave the wood where it was : it had to be taken to the yard , and it was nothing to do with Dawson or anyone else whether it was any use or not ! If he caught anyone taking wood away he would sack them on the spot . Hunter shouted very loud so that all the others might hear , and as they were all listening attentively in the next room , where they were taking their aprons off preparatory to going home , they got the full benefit of his remarks . The following Saturday when the hands went to the office for their money they were each presented with a printed card bearing the following legend : Under no circumstances is any article or material , however trifling , to be taken away by workmen for their private use , whether waste material or not , from any workshop or place where work is being done . Foremen are hereby instructed to see that this order is obeyed and to report any such act coming to their knowledge . Any man breaking this rule will be either dismissed without notice or given into custody . Rushton & Co . Most of the men took these cards with the envelopes containing their wages and walked away without making any comment - in fact , most of them were some distance away before they realized exactly what the card was about . Two or three of them stood a few steps away from the pay window in full view of Rushton and Misery and ostentatiously tore the thing into pieces and threw them into the street . One man remained at the pay window while he read the card - and then flung it with an obscene curse into Rushton 's face , and demanded his back day , which they gave him 