The last named includes all the best variety of ballet dances , such as toe , classical , character , interpretive , oriental , folk , national , covering Spanish , Russian , Greek , Javanese , etc . Instruction is given in any or all of the above to beginners , advanced amateurs , professionals and teachers , and is preceded in every case by the Ned Wayburn Foundation Technique , which includes my limbering and stretching process , and is one of the most important courses ever devised for the student of dancing in that it saves years of study . This original technique is described in a succeeding chapter . In addition to the types of dancing mentioned above , we also give instruction in the art of making up for the stage . Accompanying the technical instruction , each class and pupil receives without cost the benefit of the valuable stage-craft , managerial and producer 's knowledge that I have acquired during my years of activity in the theatrical world . This is given in occasional lectures or inspirational talks before the class . Students also , when duly fitted , will be informed as to where and how to obtain engagements , correct forms of contract to be entered into , and other valuable business information concerning the practical side of selling their services to the best advantage , saving them much time and possible embarrassment and loss . In all probability , if you love dancing and aspire to make it a career , you possess an innate sense of rhythm . You feel the swing of music and love to move your body to the strains of a lilting melody . The first great possessions of the successful stage dancer are a love of harmonious sounds and a sense of rhythmic motion . If you haven't these , you might better abandon the idea of studying with me as far as any hope is concerned of my developing you into a stage artist . While you would find much to enjoy and to benefit your health and appearance in taking my dancing exercises , if you are minus the very first dancing essentials you could not expect us to advance you beyond your own limitations . Another important qualification for the stage dancer , which if not possessed at its fullest may be acquired under our instruction , is a sense of direction . This sense of direction is of maximum importance in stage dancing , because , as you can readily understand , since you have your audience in front of you and to your left and your right , you must do your dances so that they will appeal to all sections of your audience . And there are certain stage directions which you must know in order to grasp my method of instruction . That you may get absolute precision in direction , let us proceed as follows : Imagine that you are standing on a stage , in a circle the diameter of your own feet ; we will call that circle `` your place . '' [ Illustration : _Your Place_ ] Divide the stage into eight different directions . You are now facing the `` front . '' Face the `` left , '' the `` back , '' the `` right , '' and then '' front '' again . That makes four directions -- front , left , back and right . Face half-way to the left -- that is called `` left oblique . '' Face half-way to the back -- that is called `` left oblique back . '' Now face back . Face half-way to the right -- that is called `` right oblique back . '' Now face half-way to the front . That is called `` right oblique . '' That makes eight different directions , very easy to memorize and never forgotten after once learned , and you will employ them in your stage work every day . That they may become familiar with the necessary directions , students are given brief instructions at their first lesson , as I stand before them and take the turns with them and announce the name of each direction as I take it . [ Illustration : _The Eight Different Directions_ ] [ Illustration : _Left Turn_ ] [ Illustration : _Right Turn_ ] In making the turn from wall to wall , when you turn to the left around , you should turn on the right heel , which thus acts as a pivot and keeps you in `` your place '' ; like this -- left oblique , left , left oblique back , back , right oblique back , right , right oblique , and front . In going around to the right turn on the left heel . Fix these directions firmly in your mind . You will need them when you get into stage dancing . [ Illustration : _Turning the Head_ ] The eight different directions are in eight counts . The first direction to the left is left oblique . That is counted `` one . '' Left is '' two . '' Left oblique back , `` three . '' Back , `` four . '' Right oblique back , '' five . '' Right , `` six . '' Right oblique , `` seven . '' Front is `` eight . '' All of our steps are taught in counts of eight . We begin to count from one and go as far as eight , then repeat . We count , 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 , or we count `` 1-and , 2-and , 3-and , 4-and , 5-and , 6-and , 7-and , 8-and , '' as may be required . After the steps have been taught by counts and learned properly , through much patient practice , they are fitted to music . Without turning the rest of the body , turn the head sharply to the left wall , so that your face is square to the wall . You are now looking left . Look front . Look to the right ( square around ) . Look front . Look left oblique . Front . Right oblique . Front . Now throw the head back and look up ( without straining the muscles of the neck ) -- hold the head at an angle of about 45 degrees . Your head should not be tilted to one side , but straight back . Now look `` front '' again -- now `` down , '' now `` front . '' There is a difference between _turning_ it to the left or right and _inclining_ to left or right . Incline your head to the left shoulder -- hold your face up a little and keep it square to the front -- chin high -- now incline your head to the right shoulder -- up straight -- now turn it to the left ( around as far as you can ) -- turn it front -- turn it to the `` right '' -- turn it '' front '' -- throw it `` back '' -- look up , now `` front '' -- drop `` down '' and now '' front . '' [ Illustration : ONE OF OVER TWENTY DAILY DANCING CLASSES AT THE NED WAYBURN STUDIOS . ] [ Illustration : _Inclining the Head_ ] THE LESSON TO A CLASS IS AS FOLLOWS Now , be careful to keep your lines straight up and down , directly behind one another . Let those in the first line _across_ raise the right hand . Second line across raise hands up ; third line across , and fourth line across . This is called across stage ( indicating left to right ) . This is called up and down stage ( indicating front to back ) , and going down this way ( to the footlights ) is moving down-stage . Going toward the back wall is moving up-stage or back-stage . [ Illustration : _Diagram of Modern Theatre Stage_ ] CONCERNING ENTRANCES AND EXITS If you come in sight of the audience from that side ( indicating left ) you are making an entrance from the left . If you leave in that direction , you are making an exit to the left . It is an artistic feat to make a good exit . It requires not only specialized training , but also practical experience in front of an audience . It may be a vocal exit , a dramatic or spoken exit , or a dancing exit , and one must reach a decided climax at the exit . If the dance consists of eight steps , properly spaced , the most effective steps are put in where they will provoke applause . The last or finish step must get the most applause or the dancer fails . So we put a climactic `` trick '' step in for a finish , and then we top that with the exit , and the exit must be a _surprise_ . Otherwise , the dance has not built up from the time the dancer makes an entrance and gets the attention of the audience . So making an effective exit is really a difficult thing to do . You are taught in the advanced instruction how to enter and exit properly . One draws the applause on the eighth step by assuming a certain attitude or by `` striking a picture '' which asks the audience for the applause , and on the exit another round of applause can be earned , and in this way the dance `` gets over , '' or is `` sold '' to the audience , as we say in the show business . [ Illustration : _Correct Standing Position_ ] Now face the right , please . If you make an exit on that side you are making an exit to the right . If you come on from that side ( meaning if you come in sight of the audience from that side ) you are making an entrance from the right . The proper way to stand to learn my kind of stage dancing is with the left toe pointed left oblique , and the right toe right oblique . Have your knees together , heels together , with the weight equally distributed between the feet , hands down at the side , arms relaxed , heads up and direct your gaze straight ahead on a line with your eyes . Never recognize anyone over the footlights . Always look straight front on a line with the eyes . Never look at the floor when dancing unless specifically so instructed . To look at the floor while dancing gives an audience the impression that you have no confidence in yourself and that you are laboring to perform your dance . [ Illustration : _Movements of Eyes Only_ ] In dancing , the head and arms and upper part of the body ( torso or trunk ) are as important as the feet and legs . The eyes are the most expressive agent of the body . Now , without turning your head , using your eyes only , look left oblique , look front , look right oblique , front , look left oblique down , look front , look left oblique up , look front , look right oblique down , look right oblique up , look front . Most of my instruction is based on the eight different directions which you have been told about , and on the four different parts of the foot , which you must also understand thoroughly . This makes it easy to analyze any dancing steps that we teach . These four different parts of the foot are : 1 , the toe , or end of the shoe . 2 , the ball of the foot ( the half sole ) . 3 , the heel . 4 , the flat of the foot . [ Illustration : _The Four Different Parts of the Foot_ ] Tapping the toe of the left foot to the floor makes the first count ; stamping the ball of the left foot , the second count ; the heel of the left , the third count ; and the flat of the entire foot the fourth count . These four different parts of the foot become an exercise by counting 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , with the left foot , and 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 , with the right foot , beginning with the right toe on the count of 5 . This exercise if practiced faithfully will give flexibility to the muscles and ligaments that control the entire foot , all of which are used in musical comedy dancing , for the American tap , step and specialty work ( clogging ) , for social or ballroom dancing , for exhibition dancing , as well as in the acrobatic dancing work , and for my Americanized ballet training , including toe dancing . Do this exercise first with the left foot , then with the right foot , to the count of 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 , and practice it often , till it becomes a perfectly natural action . It is the basis of the best `` bread and butter '' dancing steps , as you will discover in later lessons . In doing this exercise , remember that in dropping the toe to the floor it must be placed _straight_ back , and not left or right oblique back ; straight back from the `` place '' where you stand . The knees should be kept together . When you stamp the ball of your foot , the feet are directly opposite each other . [ Illustration : _The Development of a `` Tap '' Dancing Step_ ] I want you to note that each of the four movements of this exercise has a distinct sound . The dropping of the toe , the stamping of the ball of the foot , of the heel , and of the flat foot , each creates a separate and distinct sound . I have named these sounds `` taps , '' and it is the various combinations of these sounds that are used so effectively in musical comedy dances , in tap , step , and American specialty dancing ( sometimes called clogging ) , as well as in some of our choicest acrobatic dancing . Some of our pupils are apt at tap and step dancing , others are more apt at ballet dancing , musical comedy or acrobatic dancing . Some of our young ladies take four classes a day ; some take three ; others two ; and still others but one class a day . In addition to this , there are pupils , among them a great many young gentlemen , who take private lessons in their chosen style of dancing every day while some only take one private lesson a week . Try to perfect yourselves as solo dancers . It is there that fame and fortune await you . You may not appreciate it now , but when you have mastered the Ned Wayburn courses , you will look back with satisfaction and realize the wonderful opportunity my simple courses have afforded you . There is no other school in the world that teaches the five basic types of dancing in the same thorough , rapid manner and with the same satisfactory results . The student who has industriously performed the essential preliminary work as I teach it has obtained a satisfactory mastery of the body , and has a large range of movement at command ; is now able to control the source of movement and to relax opposing muscles so that the movement may follow through ; that is , may continue from its initiative in any part of the body to the desired climax , without muscular obstruction . The entire body is now ready and responsive to any call upon it , and the act of dancing becomes a pleasure and a joy it never was before , and never would have been but for the preliminary work as I have arranged it for the making of beautiful and efficient dancers . [ Illustration : VIVIENNE SEGAL ] The result is a harmony of rhythmical cordination that will echo far beyond the dancing courses and into the various activities of one's whole life . The great freedom and abandonment of movement now acquired is not a combination of erratic movements and gestures distributed at random . The freedom gained is the result of perfect control , not in any degree the result of unguided abandon . My dancers know how to work because they are sure of themselves ; the controlled individual is the free individual . But the dancer has gained more than mastery of movement . Valuable as are strength and skill , even more so is the resultant balance and soundness of the nervous system that directly results from such rhythmical cordination , fitting one for meeting the complex and often disturbing demands of life . Now , too , in the process of acquiring such a splendid state of general physical well-being , the pupil has absorbed and acquired some understanding of the power and the wonder of a physical self , and will proudly treat this newly discovered self with respect and consideration . The mental gains as 