Scanner 's Notes : What this is and is n't . This was taken from a copy of Shakespeare 's first folio and it is as close as I can come in ASCII to the printed text . The elongated S 's have been changed to small s 's and the conjoined ae have been changed to ae . I have left the spelling , punctuation , capitalization as close as possible to the printed text . I have corrected some spelling mistakes ( I have put together a spelling dictionary devised from the spellings of the Geneva Bible and Shakespeare 's First Folio and have unified spellings according to this template ) , typo 's and expanded abbreviations as I have come across them . Everything within brackets [ ] is what I have added . So if you do n't like that you can delete everything within the brackets if you want a purer Shakespeare . Another thing that you should be aware of is that there are textual differences between various copies of the first folio . So there may be differences ( other than what I have mentioned above ) between this and other first folio editions . This is due to the printer's habit of setting the type and running off a number of copies and then proofing the printed copy and correcting the type and then continuing the printing run . The proof run was n't thrown away but incorporated into the printed copies . This is just the way it is . The text I have used was a composite of more than 30 different First Folio editions ' best pages . If you find any scanning errors , out and out typos , punctuation errors , or if you disagree with my spelling choices please feel free to email me those errors . I wish to make this the best etext possible . My email address for right now are haradda @ aol.com and davidr @ inconnect.com . I hope that you enjoy this . David Reed Much adoe about Nothing Actus primus , Scena prima . Enter Leonato Gouernour of Messina , Innogen his wife , Hero his daughter , and Beatrice his Neece , with a messenger . Leonato . I learne in this Letter , that Don Peter of Arragon , comes this night to Messina Mess . He is very neere by this : he was not three Leagues off when I left him Leon . How many Gentlemen haue you lost in this action ? Mess . But few of any sort , and none of name Leon . A victorie is twice it selfe , when the atchieuer brings home full numbers : I finde heere , that Don Peter hath bestowed much honor on a yong Florentine , called Claudio Mess . Much deseru 'd on his part , and equally remembred by Don Pedro , he hath borne himselfe beyond the promise of his age , doing in the figure of a Lambe , the feats of a Lion , he hath indeede better bettred expectation , then you must expect of me to tell you how Leo . He hath an Vnckle heere in Messina , wil be very much glad of it Mess . I haue alreadie deliuered him letters , and there appeares much ioy in him , euen so much , that ioy could not shew it selfe modest enough , without a badg of bitternesse Leo . Did he breake out into teares ? Mess . In great measure Leo . A kinde ouerflow of kindnesse , there are no faces truer , then those that are so wash 'd , how much better is it to weepe at ioy , then to ioy at weeping ? Bea . I pray you , is Signior Mountanto return 'd from the warres , or no ? Mess . I know none of that name , Lady , there was none such in the armie of any sort Leon . What is he that you aske for Neece ? Hero . My cousin meanes Signior Benedick of Padua Mess . O he 's return 'd , and as pleasant as euer he was Beat . He set vp his bils here in Messina , & challeng'd Cupid at the Flight : and my Vnckles foole reading the Challenge , subscrib 'd for Cupid , and challeng 'd him at the Burbolt . I pray you , how many hath hee kil 'd and eaten in these warres ? But how many hath he kil 'd ? for indeed , I promis 'd to eate all of his killing Leon . 'Faith Neece , you taxe Signior Benedicke too much , but hee'l be meete with you , I doubt it not Mess . He hath done good seruice Lady in these wars Beat . You had musty victuall , and he hath holpe to ease it : he 's a very valiant Trencher-man , hee hath an excellent stomacke Mess . And a good souldier too Lady Beat . And a good souldier to a Lady . But what is he to a Lord ? Mess . A Lord to a Lord , a man to a man , stuft with all honourable vertues Beat . It is so indeed , he is no lesse then a stuft man : but for the stuffing well , we are all mortall Leon . You must not ( sir ) mistake my Neece , there is a kind of merry war betwixt Signior Benedick , & her : they neuer meet , but there 's a skirmish of wit between them Bea . Alas , he gets nothing by that . In our last conflict , foure of his fiue wits went halting off , and now is the whole man gouern 'd with one : so that if hee haue wit enough to keepe himselfe warme , let him beare it for a difference betweene himselfe and his horse : For it is all the wealth that he hath left , to be knowne a reasonable creature . Who is his companion now ? He hath euery month a new sworne brother Mess . Is't possible ? Beat . Very easily possible : he weares his faith but as the fashion of his hat , it euer changes with y next block Mess . I see ( Lady ) the Gentleman is not in your bookes Bea . No , and he were , I would burne my study . But I pray you , who is his companion ? Is there no young squarer now , that will make a voyage with him to the diuell ? Mess . He is most in the company of the right noble Claudio Beat . O Lord , he will hang vpon him like a disease : he is sooner caught then the pestilence , and the taker runs presently mad . God helpe the noble Claudio , if hee haue caught the Benedict , it will cost him a thousand pound ere he be cur'd Mess . I will hold friends with you Lady Bea . Do good friend Leo . You'l ne 're run mad Neece Bea . No , not till a hot Ianuary Mess . Don Pedro is approach 'd . Enter don Pedro , Claudio , Benedicke , Balthasar , and Iohn the bastard . Pedro . Good Signior Leonato , you are come to meet your trouble : the fashion of the world is to auoid cost , and you encounter it Leon . Neuer came trouble to my house in the likenes of your Grace : for trouble being gone , comfort should remaine : but when you depart from me , sorrow abides , and happinesse takes his leaue Pedro . You embrace your charge too willingly : I thinke this is your daughter Leonato . Her mother hath many times told me so Bened . Were you in doubt that you askt her ? Leonato . Signior Benedicke , no , for then were you a childe Pedro . You haue it full Benedicke , we may ghesse by this , what you are , being a man , truely the Lady fathers her selfe : be happie Lady , for you are like an honorable father Ben . If Signior Leonato be her father , she would not haue his head on her shoulders for al Messina , as like him as she is Beat . I wonder that you will still be talking , signior Benedicke , no body markes you Ben . What my deere Ladie Disdaine ! are you yet liuing ? Beat . Is it possible Disdaine should die , while shee hath such meete foode to feede it , as Signior Benedicke ? Curtesie it selfe must conuert to Disdaine , if you come in her presence Bene . Then is curtesie a turne-coate , but it is certaine I am loued of all Ladies , onely you excepted : and I would I could finde in my heart that I had not a hard heart , for truely I loue none Beat . A deere happinesse to women , they would else haue beene troubled with a pernitious Suter , I thanke God and my cold blood , I am of your humour for that , I had rather heare my Dog barke at a Crow , than a man sweare he loues me Bene . God keepe your Ladiship still in that minde , so some Gentleman or other shall scape a predestinate scratcht face Beat . Scratching could not make it worse , and 'twere such a face as yours were Bene . Well , you are a rare Parrat teacher Beat . A bird of my tongue , is better than a beast of your Ben . I would my horse had the speed of your tongue , and so good a continuer , but keepe your way a Gods name , I haue done Beat . You alwaies end with a Iades tricke , I know you of old Pedro . This is the summe of all : Leonato , signior Claudio , and signior Benedicke ; my deere friend Leonato , hath inuited you all , I tell him we shall stay here , at the least a moneth , and he heartily praies some occasion may detaine vs longer : I dare sweare hee is no hypocrite , but praies from his heart Leon . If you sweare , my Lord , you shall not be forsworne , let mee bid you welcome , my Lord , being reconciled to the Prince your brother : I owe you all duetie Iohn . I thanke you , I am not of many words , but I thanke you Leon . Please it your grace leade on ? Pedro . Your hand Leonato , we will goe together . Exeunt . Manet Benedicke and Claudio . Clau . Benedicke , didst thou note the daughter of signior Leonato ? Bene . I noted her not , but I lookt on her Claud . Is she not a modest yong Ladie ? Bene . Doe you question me as an honest man should doe , for my simple true iudgement ? or would you haue me speake after my custome , as being a professed tyrant to their sexe ? Clau . No , I pray thee speake in sober iudgement Bene . Why yfaith me thinks shee 's too low for a hie praise , too browne for a faire praise , and too little for a great praise , onely this commendation I can affoord her , that were shee other then she is , she were vnhandsome , and being no other , but as she is , I doe not like her Clau . Thou think'st I am in sport , I pray thee tell me truely how thou lik'st her Bene . Would you buie her , that you enquier after her ? Clau . Can the world buie such a iewell ? Ben . Yea , and a case to put it into , but speake you this with a sad brow ? Or doe you play the flowting iacke , to tell vs Cupid is a good Hare-finder , and Vulcan a rare Carpenter : Come , in what key shall a man take you to goe in the song ? Clau . In mine eie , she is the sweetest Ladie that euer I lookt on Bene . I can see yet without spectacles , and I see no such matter : there 's her cosin , and she were not possest with a furie , exceedes her as much in beautie , as the first of Maie doth the last of December : but I hope you haue no intent to turne husband , haue you ? Clau . I would scarce trust my selfe , though I had sworne the contrarie , if Hero would be my wife Bene . Ist come to this ? in faith hath not the world one man but he will weare his cap with suspition ? shall I neuer see a batcheller of three score againe ? goe to yfaith , and thou wilt needes thrust thy necke into a yoke , weare the print of it , and sigh away sundaies : looke , don Pedro is returned to seeke you . Enter don Pedro , Iohn the bastard . Pedr . What secret hath held you here , that you followed not to Leonatoes ? Bened . I would your Grace would constraine mee to tell Pedro . I charge thee on thy allegeance Ben . You heare , Count Claudio , I can be secret as a dumbe man , I would haue you thinke so ( but on my allegiance , marke you this , on my allegiance ) hee is in loue , With who ? now that is your Graces part : marke how short his answere is , with Hero , Leonatoes short daughter Clau . If this were so , so were it vttred Bened . Like the old tale , my Lord , it is not so , nor 't was not so : but indeede , God forbid it should be so Clau . If my passion change not shortly , God forbid it should be otherwise Pedro . Amen , if you loue her , for the Ladie is verie well worthie Clau . You speake this to fetch me in , my Lord Pedr . By my troth I speake my thought Clau . And in faith , my Lord , I spoke mine Bened . And by my two faiths and troths , my Lord , I speake mine Clau . That I loue her , I feele Pedr . That she is worthie , I know Bened . That I neither feele how shee should be loued , nor know how shee should be worthie , is the opinion that fire can not melt out of me , I will die in it at the stake Pedr . Thou wast euer an obstinate heretique in the despight of Beautie Clau . And neuer could maintaine his part , but in the force of his will Ben . That a woman conceiued me , I thanke her : that she brought mee vp , I likewise giue her most humble thankes : but that I will haue a rechate winded in my forehead , or hang my bugle in an inuisible baldricke , all women shall pardon me : because I will not do them the wrong to mistrust any , I will doe my selfe the right to trust none : and the fine is , ( for the which I may goe the finer ) I will liue a Batchellor Pedro . I shall see thee ere I die , looke pale with loue Bene . With anger , with sicknesse , or with hunger , my Lord , not with loue : proue that euer I loose more blood with loue , then I will get againe with drinking , picke out mine eyes with a Ballet-makers penne , and hang me vp at the doore of a brothel-house for the signe of blinde Cupid Pedro . Well , if euer thou doost fall from this faith , thou wilt proue a notable argument Bene . If I do , hang me in a bottle like a Cat , & shoot at me , and he that hit 's me , let him be clapt on the shoulder , and cal 'd Adam Pedro . Well , as time shall trie : In time the sauage Bull doth beare the yoake Bene . The sauage bull may , but if euer the sensible Benedicke beare it , plucke off the bulles hornes , and set them in my forehead , and let me be vildely painted , and in such great Letters as they write , heere is good horse to hire : let them signifie vnder my signe , here you may see Benedicke the married man Clau . If this should euer happen , thou wouldst bee horne mad Pedro . Nay , if Cupid haue not spent all his Quiuer in Venice , thou wilt quake for this shortly Bene . I looke for an earthquake too then Pedro . Well , you will temporize with the houres , in the meane time , good Signior Benedicke , repaire to Leonatoes , commend me to him , and tell him I will not faile him at supper , for indeede 