Produced by Carlo Traverso , Chuck Greif and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http : //dp.rastko.net ( Produced from images of the Bibliothque nationale de France ( BnF/Gallica ) at http : //gallica.bnf.fr ) TRAVELS IN FRANCE , DURING THE YEARS 1814-15 . COMPRISING A RESIDENCE AT PARIS DURING THE STAY OF THE ALLIED ARMIES , AND AT AIX , _AT THE PERIOD OF THE LANDING OF_ BONAPARTE . IN TWO VOLUMES . SECOND EDITION , CORRECTED AND ENLARGED . EDINBURGH : PRINTED FOR MACREDIE , SKELLY , AND MUCKERSY , 52 . PRINCE 'S STREET ; LONGMAN , HURST . REES , ORME , AND BROWN ; BLACK , PARRY , AND CO. T. UNDERWOOD , LONDON ; AND J. CUMMING , DUBLIN . 1816 . [ Transcriber 's note : The original spellings have been maintained ; the French spelling and accentuation have not been corrected , but left as they appear in the original . ] ADVERTISEMENT . A Second Edition of the following Work having been demanded by the Booksellers , the Author has availed himself of the opportunity to correct many verbal inaccuracies , to add some general reflections , and to alter materially those parts of it which were most hastily prepared for the press , particularly the Journal in the Second Volume , by retrenching a number of particulars of partial interest , and substituting more general observations on the state of the country , supplied by his own recollection and that of his fellow-travellers . He has only farther to repeat here , what he stated in the Advertisement to the first Edition , that the whole materials of the Publication were collected in France , partly by himself , during a residence which the state of his health had made adviseable in Provence , and partly by some friends who had preceded him in their visit to France , and were at Paris during the time when it was first occupied by the Allied Armies ; -- and that he has submitted it to the world , merely in the hope of adding somewhat to the general stock of information regarding the situation , character , and prospects of the French people , which it is so desirable that the English Public should possess . CONTENTS . VOL . I . CHAPTER I . Journey to Paris II . Paris -- The Allied Armies III . Paris -- Its Public Buildings IV . Environs of Paris V. Paris -- The Louvre VI . Paris -- The French Character and Manners VII . Paris -- The Theatres VIII . Paris -- The French Army and Imperial Government IX . Journey to Flanders VOLUME II . CHAPTER I . Journey to Aix II . Residence at Aix , and Journey to Bourdeaux III . State of France under Napoleon -- Anecdotes of him IV . State of France under Napoleon -- continued V. State of Society and Manners in France Register of the Weather VOLUME FIRST . CHAPTER I . JOURNEY TO PARIS . We passed through Kent in our way to France , on Sunday the first of May 1814 . This day 's journey was very delightful . The whole scenery around us , -- the richness of the fields and woods , then beginning to assume the first colours of spring ; the extent and excellence of the cultivation ; the thriving condition of the towns , and the smiling aspect of the neat and clean villages through which we passed ; the luxuriant bloom of the fruit-trees surrounding them ; the number of beautiful villas adapted to the accommodation of the middle ranks of society , the crowds of well-dressed peasantry going to and returning from church ; the frank and cheerful countenances of the men , and beauty of the women -- all presented a most pleasing spectacle . If we had not proposed to cross the channel , we should have compared all that we now saw with our recollections of Scotland ; and the feeling of the difference , although it might have increased our admiration , would perhaps have made us less willing to acknowledge it . But when we were surveying England with a view to a comparison with France , the difference of its individual provinces was overlooked ; -- we took a pride in the apparent happiness and comfort of a people , of whom we knew nothing more , than that they were our countrymen ; and we rejoiced , that the last impression left on our minds by the sight of our own country , was one which we already anticipated that no other could efface . Our passage to Calais was rendered very interesting , by the number of Frenchmen who accompanied us . Some of these were emigrants , who had spent the best part of their lives in exile ; the greater part were prisoners of various ranks , who had been taken at different periods of the war . There was evidently the greatest diversity of character , of prospects , of previous habits , and of political and moral sentiments among these men ; the only bond that connected them was , the love of their common country ; and at a moment for which they had been so long and anxiously looking , this was sufficient to repress all jealousy and discord , and to unite them cordially and sincerely in the sentiment which was expressed , with true French enthusiasm , by one of the party , as we left the harbour of Dover , -- '' Voila notre chere France , -- A present nous sommes tous amis ! '' As we proceeded , the expression of their emotions , in words , looks , and gestures , was sometimes extremely pleasing , at other times irresistibly ludicrous , but always characteristic of a people whose natural feelings are quick and lively , and who have no idea of there being any dignity or manliness in repressing , or concealing them . When the boat approached the French shore , a fine young officer , who had been one of the most amusing of our companions , leapt from the prow , and taking up a handful of sand , kissed it with an expression of ardent feeling and enthusiastic joy , which it was delightful to observe . It is only on occasions of this kind , that the whole strength of the feeling of patriotism is made known . In the ordinary routine of civil life , this feeling is seldom awakened . In the moments of national enthusiasm and exultation , it is often mingled with others . But in witnessing the emotions of the French exiles and captives , on returning to their wasted and dishonoured country , we discerned the full force of those moral ties , by which , even in the most afflicting circumstances of national humiliation and disaster , the hearts of men are bound to the land of their fathers . We landed , on the evening of the 2d , about three miles from Calais , and walked into the town . The appearance of the country about Calais does not differ materially from that in the immediate neighbourhood of Dover , which is much less fertile than the greater part of Kent ; but the cottages are decidedly inferior to the English . The first peculiarity that struck us was the grotesque appearance of the _Douaniers_ , who came to examine us on the coast ; and when we had passed through the numerous guards , and been examined at the guard-houses , previously to our admission into the town , the gates of which had been shut , we had already observed , what subsequent observation confirmed , that the air and manner which we call military are in very little estimation among the French soldiers . The general appearance of the French soldiery can not be better described than it has been by Mr Scott : `` They seemed rather the fragments of broken-up gangs , than the remains of a force that had been steady , controlled , and lawful . '' They have almost uniformly , officers and men , much expression of intelligence , and often of ferocity , in their countenances , and much activity in their movements ; but there are few of them whom an Englishman , judging from his recollection of English soldiers , would recognise to belong to a regular army . The lower orders of inhabitants in Calais hailed the arrival of the English strangers with much pleasure , loudly proclaiming , however , the interested motives of their joy . A number of blackguard-looking men gathered round us , recommending their own services , and different hotels , with much vehemence , and violent altercations among themselves ; and troops of children followed , crying , `` Vivent les Anglois -- Give me one sous . '' In our subsequent travels , we were often much amused by the importunities of the children , who seem to beg , in many places , without being in want , and are very ingenious in recommending themselves to travellers ; crying first , Vive le Roi ; if that does not succeed , Vive l'Empereur ; that failing , Vive le Roi d'Angleterre ; and professing loyalty to all the sovereigns of Europe , rather than give up the hopes of a _sous_ . Having reached the principal inn , we found that all the places in the diligence for Paris were taken for the ten following days . By this time , in consequence of the communication with France being opened , several new coaches had been established between London and Dover , but no such measure had been thought of on the road between Calais and Paris . There was no want of horses , as we afterwards found , belonging to the inns on the roads , but this seemed to indicate strongly want of ready money among the innkeepers . However , there were at Calais a number of '' voitures '' of different kinds , which had been little used for several years ; one of which we hired from a `` magasin des chaises , '' which reminded us of the Sentimental Journey , and set out at noon on the 3d , for Paris , accompanied by a French officer who had been a prisoner in Scotland , and to whose kindness and attentions we were much indebted . We were much struck with the appearance of poverty and antiquity about Calais , which afforded a perfect contrast to the Kentish towns ; and all the country towns , through which we afterwards passed in France , presented the same general character . The houses were larger than those of most English country towns , but they were all old ; in few places out of repair , but nowhere newly built , or even newly embellished . There were no newly painted houses , windows , carriages , carts , or even sign-posts ; the furniture , and all the interior arrangements of the inns , were much inferior to those we had left ; their external appearance stately and old-fashioned ; the horses in the carriages were caparisoned with white leather , and harnessed with ropes ; the men who harnessed them were of mean appearance , and went about their work as if they had many other kinds of work to do . There were few carts , and hardly any four-wheeled carriages to be seen in the streets ; and it was obvious that the internal communications of this part of the country were very limited . There appeared to be few houses fitted for the residence of persons of moderate incomes , and hardly any villas about the town to which they might retire after giving up business . All the lower ranks of people , besides being much worse looking than the English , were much more coarsely clothed , and they seemed utterly indifferent about the appearance of their dress . Very few of the men wore beaver hats , and hardly two had exactly the same kind of covering for their heads . The dress of the women of better condition , particularly their high-crowned bonnets , and the ruffs about their necks , put us in mind of the pictures of old English fashions . The lower people appeared to bear a much stronger resemblance to some of the Highland clans , and to the Welch , than to any other inhabitants of Britain . On the road between Calais and Boulogne , we began to perceive the peculiarities of the husbandry of this part of France . These are just what were described by Arthur Young ; and although it is possible , as the natives uniformly affirm , that the agriculture has improved since the revolution , this improvement must be in the details of the operations , and in the extent of land under tillage , not in the principles of the art . The most striking to the eye of a stranger are the want of enclosures , the want of pasture lands and of green crops , and the consequent number of bare fallows , on many of which a few sheep and long-legged lean hogs are turned out to pick up a miserable subsistence . The common rotation appears to be a three year 's one ; fallow , wheat , and oats or barley . On this part of the road , the ground is almost all under tillage , but the soil is poor ; there is very little wood , and the general appearance of the country is therefore very bleak . In the immediate neighbourhood of Boulogne , it is better clothed , and varied by some pasture fields and gardens . The ploughs go with wheels . They are drawn by only two horses , but are clumsily made , and evidently inferior to the Scotch ploughs . They , as well as the carts , are made generally of green unpeeled wood , like those in the Scotch Highlands , and are never painted . This absence of all attempt to give an air of neatness or smartness to any part of their property -- this indifference as to its appearance , is a striking characteristic of the French people over a great part of the country . It is likewise seen , as before observed , in the dress of the lower orders ; but here it is often combined with a fantastic and ludicrous display of finery . An English dairy-maid or chamber-maid , ploughman or groom , shopkeeper or mechanic , has each a dress consistent in its parts , and adapted to the situation and employment of the wearer . But a country girl in France , whose bed-gown and petticoat are of the coarsest materials , and scantiest dimensions , has a pair of long dangling ear-rings , worth from 30 to 40 francs . A carter wears an opera hat , and a ballad-singer struts about in long military boots ; and a blacksmith , whose features are obscured by the smoke and dirt which have been gathering on them for weeks , and whose clothes hang about him in tatters , has his hair newly frizzled and powdered , and his long queue plaited on each side , all down his back , with the most scrupulous nicety . Akin to this shew of finery in some parts of their dress , utterly inconsistent with the other parts of it , and with their general condition , is the disposition of the lower orders in France , even in their intercourse with one another , to ape the manners of their superiors . `` An English peasant , '' as Mr Scott has well remarked , `` appears to spurn courtesy from him , in a bitter sense of its inapplicability to his condition . '' This feeling is unknown in France . A French soldier hands his `` bien aime '' into a restaurateur 's of the lowest order and supplies her with fruits and wine , with the grace and foppery of a Parisian `` petit maitre , '' and with the gravity of a '' philosophe . '' -- '' Madame , '' says a scavenger in the streets of Paris , laying his hand on his heart , and making a low bow to an old woman cleaning shoes at the door of an inn , `` J'espere que vous vous portez bien . '' -- '' Monsieur , '' she replies , dropping a curtsey with an air of gratitude and profound respect , `` Vous me faites d'honneur ; je me porte a merveille . '' This peculiarity of manner in the lower orders , will generally , it is believed , be found connected with their real degradation and insignificance in the eyes of their superiors . It is precisely because they are not accustomed to look with respect to those of their own condition , and because their condition is not respected by others , that they imitate the higher ranks . An English coachman or stable-boy is taught to believe , that a certain demeanour befits his situation ; and he will certainly expose himself to more sneers and animadversions , by assuming the manners of the rank next above him in society , than the highest peer of the realm will by assuming his . But Frenchmen of the same rank are fain to seek that respectability from manner , which is denied to the 