The census of 1880 fixed the juvenile population of the United States at 20,000,000 , of whom 10,158,954 were boys and 9,884,705 were girls . `` From a political point of view , '' says the eminent philanthropist , Mr. Elbridge T. Gerry , `` the future of the nation depends on the physical and intellectual education of its children , whose numbers increase every year , and who will soon constitute the sovereign people . From the moral and social point of view , the welfare of society imperatively demands that the atmosphere in which they live , and the treatment that they receive from those intrusted with their care or custody , shall be such as to establish in them habits of industry , of sobriety , of honesty , and good conduct . For injurious treatment of a child , inasmuch as it tends to result in the distortion of its physical and moral nature , constitutes an offence whose importance seriously effects the public order . '' But what is to be understood by cruel treatment ? It consists in every act of omission or of commission which causes or procures physical injury or death . It is hardly necessary to observe that this definition must be limited to its practical meaning , rather than interpreted in its broader , philosophical sense . We must leave out of the question the results of improper or imperfect educational training and discipline . It is doubtless a cause of harm to a delicate and nervous child to force the development of its intelligence ; a harsh word hastily uttered by parents may leave an ineffaceable impression upon a sensitive organization ; severity degenerates into injustice when it confounds a peevish act , the result of physical disorder , with an act of deliberate disobedience . The weakness which resigns its authority In order to spare itself the care of a child 's education engenders for life the spirit of insubordination . The humiliating and unjust reproach , the stinging sarcasm , wound the child in its tenderest feelings ; -- but these are not the forms of cruelty and wrong which fall within reach of the law . It is unable to interpose between the parents and the child , except in case of an actual and serious offence , and for the rest it must rely upon the affection planted by nature in the hearts of parents . These distinctions are more felt than expressed , and opinion will never deceive itself in regard to the conduct of unnatural parents . But if these propositions are absolutely incontestable , how do they leave room for the function of a society ? If children are beaten , abandoned , given over to odious practices , will not the authorities , on the complaint of those interested , or compelled by public opinion , be able adequately to fulfil the task ? This reasoning , altogether French , would not properly take into account the American temperament , the genius of the Anglo-Saxon race , of its institutions , and of its usages . In France , since the fourteenth century , misdemeanors have been prosecuted the more generally by the public minister , acting under whose orders are numerous officers of judiciary police , who entertain the complaints of the public and send them , with the result of their examination , to our courts . The magistrates charged with the case complete the investigations , if they take place . The elements of the evidence are therefore combined when the prosecution is instituted . In the United States these intermediate officials exist but imperfectly between the injured party and the magistrate who renders judgment . From lack of sufficient evidence , the rights of this injured party run the risk of being compromised through his inexperience . Moreover , the complaint of the child , often directed against its parents or its legal guardians , involves the examination of a delicate situation , which must be conducted with much discernment . Without comparing the two systems , American and French , which correspond each to the particular genius of the two nations , it will be seen that the American system leaves much more to private initiative , and that it would become ineffectual when the victim of the offence , being a child , has neither the energy nor the knowledge necessary to demonstrate that its complaint is well founded , without the aid of some one in power . This is the aid which is given by the New York Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children ; and we can now understand how the exigency of the case , so powerfully felt by the practical intelligence of the Americans , has called into existence this potent organization , which we may call the guardian of the rights of childhood , for the repression of the offences from which it is liable to suffer . The following anecdote shows how the necessity for this institution arose , in a manner at once thrilling and dramatic : -- Ten years ago in New York , on the top floor of a tenement-house , in a miserable room without furniture , a dying woman lay on a pallet , in the last stage of consumption . A charitable lady who visited her asked what she could do for her . The dying woman replied : `` My hours are numbered , but how can I die in peace when night and day I hear the beating by her mother-in-law of the unhappy little girl who lives in the room next to mine . '' And , in fact , for a month her heart had been torn by the cries of this child , Mary Ellen , kept in confinement by this brute . Much moved by this recital , the visitor felt impelled to demand the interference of the police . They told her this was impracticable unless she was able to furnish proof of her allegation . She knew the facts only upon hearsay , and only in case a misdemeanor were actually proved would it be possible for the police to interfere as she desired . The charitable feelings of the lady would not permit her to stop here . She made inquiries among benevolent societies . But here again she experienced a check . The societies could not receive the child except upon legal commitment by an order of court . And charitable persons with the most benevolent tendencies , being consulted on this difficulty , confessed themselves at a loss to suggest a remedy in the case , and declared that it was dangerous to interfere between parents and children ; that in so doing one is liable to become involved in inextricable difficulties , since the heads of the family are the best guardians of their children . However , the sorrowful appeal of the dying woman echoed continually in the ears of her whose charitable aid had been implored . She resolved upon a supreme effort to rescue this child . She sought Mr. Henry Bergh , a man who has never been deaf to a cry of despair , and who has devoted his life to the protection of animals . Mr. Bergh considered the life of a child to be quite as valuable as that of a beast , and gave it as his opinion that the tribunals should be appealed to . A warrant was immediately procured and the child was produced in court , its face covered with horrible wounds . A pair of scissors with which these wounds had been inflicted were produced . The facts in the case caused a profound sensation in the court and throughout the city . The mother-in-law was arrested , found guilty , and the little girl was taken from her hands to receive an education which has rendered her an elegant and accomplished young woman . Humble beginnings , which it will be well for us to bear in remembrance for the confusion of our pride ! It is from the protection of animals that has sprung , in New York , that of the child . And , when we contemplate the great number of societies in the United States , -- the Humane Society of Saratoga , of Bangor , of Keene , of Taunton , of Connecticut , the Western Pennsylvania , the Tennessee Society , those of Nashville , of Cleveland , of Cincinnati , of Indianapolis , of Chicago , of Peoria , of Sangamon , of Quincy , of Minnesota , of Minneapolis , extending , simultaneously , their help to children and to the brutes , we shall be no longer astonished either at the combination of effort explained by this historic origin , or especially at a philosophy which rightly esteems that cruelty commences with the animal , only to end fatally with the human being . The proceeding instituted at the instance of Mr. Henry Bergh was a most valuable precedent . The establishment of a method of rescue , encouraged complaints , which , till then , had been silent , of the abandonment , misery , or sufferings of children . Mr. Bergh 's society found itself besieged , and , after deliberation with his counsel , it was determined to establish another in New York , whose special mission should be the protection of children . An old gentleman of high respectability , belonging to the sect of the Quakers , Mr. John D. Wright , was elected to the presidency , which office he held until his death , which occurred on the 21st of August , 1880 . His successor is Mr. Elbridge T. Gerry . However , inasmuch as the authority with which the society sought to be invested had reference to public justice , and involved the power to appear for the defence of the interests of others , and to require the coperation of public officials , a law was indispensable , in order to confer these powers . Such a law was passed August 21 , 1875 , whose provisions covered not only the case of the New York society , but determined the functions of all institutions of a similar nature . On condition of complying with the prescribed formalities for acquiring a corporate existence , the law granted to these institutions the right to make complaints , in any jurisdiction , of violations of the statutes regarding children ; it set forth , formally , the duty of magistrates or officers of police , to cooperate with the societies acting in the limits of their several jurisdictions . The boundaries of the ground of protection were thus defined , but there was still lacking the requisite legislative authority . Experience showed that , besides the misdemeanors of common law -- attempts upon the morals , murder , assault and battery , etc. -- a multitude of offences against children remained unpunished . The society , therefore , solicited and obtained from the Legislature , powers which permitted it to repress acts of cruelty towards children that the law failed to reach . The first of these measures was the law of 1876 , forbidding the employment of minors under sixteen years as dancers , beggars , street peddlers , as gymnasts or contortionists , or in indecent occupations prejudicial to their health or perilous to their life . Then came the law of June 6 , 1877 , forbidding the admission of minors under fourteen years into public places , liquor saloons , balls , concerts , theatres , unless accompanied by a parent or legal guardian . With these laws , which it caused to be interpreted in the courts in certain test cases , the society arrived at the most satisfactory results . There were no longer seen in New York those juvenile beggars whose miserable appearance is made an instrument of gain by their worthless masters ; those vagrants who disguise their vagabondage under the pretext of imaginary professions , collecting cigar stumps and rag picking ; those little girls who sell flowers at the doors of houses of bad repute , often concealing under this ostensible occupation infamous transactions with panders who keep them in their pay . A determined warfare was declared against the Italian padroni , who thrive upon the toil of the little unfortunates to whom they pretend to teach music , and whom they utilize as peddlers and chimney-sweepers . The conviction of the too notorious Ancarola was the signal for the suppression of these shameless villains ; the purchases of children ceased , and the cause of humanity triumphed , thanks to the combined efforts of the society and of the Italian consul , after long and earnest conferences . It is not only the Italians , but the children of all nationalities , who have profited from this powerful patronage : Hungarian , German , Chinese , Irish , French . One of our compatriots , a girl of fourteen years , came one day to implore its aid . Her father was a drunkard , who had reached the lowest round in the ladder of degradation ; her mother had no means of subsistence except concubinage , nor her two sisters except prostitution . She begged that they would save her from this life of shame . The society received her , procured her a position , a good education . Learning that she was heiress to a considerable property left by a grandfather , the society took active steps in France to secure to her her rights . Unfortunately , the agent who had possession of the estate became insolvent after having squandered the property , and it was impossible to recover it . The society continued to care for the young girl up to the day of her marriage to a young man enjoying a regular salary of $ 1,200 , and worthy of her in all respects . The strict watch kept upon the liquor saloons contributed equally to improve the condition of children . Many were in the habit of being sent by confirmed drunkards to buy the `` liquid poison ! '' They thus promoted this vice whose hardened subjects would prolong It even beyond the grave by asking that `` a bottle of whiskey may be put in their coffin . '' The obedience of the children was rewarded by invitations to drink , which initiated them in debauchery . It was among women abandoned to drink that lived Eliza Clark , a child of eleven years , paying for the drinks with the gains which she realized from dancing or singing ; in return , the women gave her brandy to drink and tobacco to smoke , so that when she was found she resembled `` a beast more than a human creature . '' They also suppressed the playing of pool for drinks by minors , instituted by saloon keepers to induce them to drink liquor , which was the reward of those whom fortune favored in the game . The police of the theatres performed their duty conscientiously , and the statutes were obeyed . The necessity of being accompanied by an adult was felt to be a strange restraint by these gamins eager for the theatre , whose attractions led them to abandon school , work , and family , and to procure the money for their admission by stealing it from their parents , or at a pinch from strangers ; and where they would mingle , between the acts , with pick-pockets and low characters who encouraged them in the ways of vice . And for a stronger reason , the child was more carefully protected against the perils of the stage than against those of the auditory . Juvenile performances were forbidden , and the youthful performers were excluded successively from the Columbia Opera House or Theatre des Folies , from the Italian Opera , from the Gem Theatre , from Parker 's American Theatre , and from the Juvenile Opera . Permissions for individual performances were peremptorily refused even to parents who were actors . Here the work of the society encountered serious obstacles , and it is necessary to quote from Mr. Elbridge T. Gerry in order to appreciate the motives by which the society was actuated in combating with vigorous purpose the opposition which it met with : `` The Press , which is influenced to a considerable extent by the representations of theatrical managers , often criticises severely any attempt to deprive the public of what it is pleased to call its legitimate amusements , by the suppression of such entertainments . And many pronounced patrons of the dramatic art even maintain that such exhibitions are indispensable to the proper development of a dramatic education , and that when the necessities of the parents require it , charity should encourage the children to procure this means of obtaining a livelihood . But let us examine the other side of the question . When the curtain rises in the theatre , a draught of warm air rushes from the audience on to the stage , and often paralyzes for some moments the vocal chords of the actors . When the curtain falls , the cold air comes down from the flies , and the children , who have become over heated by their physical exertions , shiver to the marrow before they are able to accustom themselves to this sudden change of temperature . Every night these things are renewed . During the day the children sleep as best they can . Their nervous system is rapidly undermined ; their 