I am one of those unfortunate Men within the City-Walls , who am married to a Woman of Quality , but her Temper is something different from that of Lady Anvil . My Lady 's whole Time and Thoughts are spent in keeping up to the Mode both in Apparel and Furniture . All the Goods in my House have been changed three times in seven Years . I have had seven Children by her ; and by our Marriage Articles she was to have her Apartment new furnished as often as she lay in . Nothing in our House is useful but that which is fashionable ; my Pewter holds out generally half a Year , my Plate a full Twelvemonth ; Chairs are not fit to sit in that were made two Years since , nor Beds fit for any thing but to sleep in that have stood up above that Time . My Dear is of Opinion that an old-fashioned Grate consumes Coals , but gives no Heat : If she drinks out of Glasses of last Year , she can not distinguish Wine from Small-Beer . Oh dear Sir you may guess all the rest . Yours . P. S. I could bear even all this , if I were not obliged also to eat fashionably . I have a plain Stomach , and have a constant Loathing of whatever comes to my own Table ; for which Reason I dine at the Chop-House three Days a Week : Where the good Company wonders they never see you of late . I am sure by your unprejudiced Discourses you love Broth better than Soup . Wills , Feb. 19 . Mr. Spectator , You may believe you are a Person as much talked of as any Man in Town . I am one of your best Friends in this House , and have laid a Wager you are so candid a Man and so honest a Fellow , that you will print this Letter , tho it is in Recommendation of a new Paper called The Historian . [ 1 ] I have read it carefully , and find it written with Skill , good Sense , Modesty , and Fire . You must allow the Town is kinder to you than you deserve ; and I doubt not but you have so much Sense of the World , Change of Humour , and instability of all humane Things , as to understand , that the only Way to preserve Favour , is to communicate it to others with Good-Nature and Judgment . You are so generally read , that what you speak of will be read . This with Men of Sense and Taste is all that is wanting to recommend The Historian . I am , Sir , Your daily Advocate , Reader Gentle . I was very much surprised this Morning , that any one should find out my Lodging , and know it so well , as to come directly to my Closet-Door , and knock at it , to give me the following Letter . When I came out I opened it , and saw by a very strong Pair of Shoes and a warm Coat the Bearer had on , that he walked all the Way to bring it me , tho dated from York . My Misfortune is that I can not talk , and I found the Messenger had so much of me , that he could think better than speak . He had , I observed , a polite Discerning hid under a shrewd Rusticity : He delivered the Paper with a Yorkshire Tone and a Town Leer . Mr. Spectator , The Privilege you have indulged John Trot has proved of very bad Consequence to our illustrious Assembly , which , besides the many excellent Maxims it is founded upon , is remarkable for the extraordinary Decorum always observed in it . One Instance of which is that the Carders , ( who are always of the first Quality ) never begin to play till the French-Dances are finished , and the Country-Dances begin : But John Trot having now got your Commission in his Pocket , ( which every one here has a profound Respect for ) has the Assurance to set up for a Minuit-Dancer . Not only so , but he has brought down upon us the whole Body of the Trots , which are very numerous , with their Auxiliaries the Hobblers and the Skippers , by which Means the Time is so much wasted , that unless we break all Rules of Government , it must redound to the utter Subversion of the Brag-Table , the discreet Members of which value Time as Fribble 's Wife does her Pin-Money . We are pretty well assured that your Indulgence to Trot was only in relation to Country-Dances ; however we have deferred the issuing an Order of Council upon the Premisses , hoping to get you to join with us , that Trot , nor any of his Clan , presume for the future to dance any but Country-Dances , unless a Horn-Pipe upon a Festival-Day . If you will do this you will oblige a great many Ladies , and particularly Your most humble Servant , Eliz . Sweepstakes . York , Feb. 16 . I never meant any other than that Mr. Trott should confine himself to Country-Dances . And I further direct , that he shall take out none but his own Relations according to their Nearness of Blood , but any Gentlewoman may take out him . London , Feb. 21 . The Spectator . T. [ Footnote 1 : Steele 's papers had many imitations , as the Historian , here named ; the Rhapsody , Observator , Moderator , Growler , Censor , Hermit , Surprize , Silent Monitor , Inquisitor , Pilgrim , Restorer , Instructor , Grumbler , & c. There was also in 1712 a Rambler , anticipating the name of Dr. Johnsons Rambler of 1750-2 . ] * * * * * No . 309 . Saturday , February 23 , 1712 . Addison . D , quibus imperium est animarum , umbrque silentes , Et Chaos , et Phlegethon , loca nocte silentia late ; Sit mihi fas audita loqui ! sit numine vestro Pandere res alta terra et caligine mersas . Virg . I have before observed in general , that the Persons whom Milton introduces into his Poem always discover such Sentiments and Behaviour , as are in a peculiar manner conformable to their respective Characters . Every Circumstance in their Speeches and Actions is with great Justness and Delicacy adapted to the Persons who speak and act . As the Poet very much excels in this Consistency of his Characters , I shall beg Leave to consider several Passages of the Second Book in this Light . That superior Greatness and Mock-Majesty , which is ascribed to the Prince of the fallen Angels , is admirably preserved in the Beginning of this Book . His opening and closing the Debate ; his taking on himself that great Enterprize at the Thought of which the whole Infernal Assembly trembled ; his encountering the hideous Phantom who guarded the Gates of Hell , and appeared to him in all his Terrors , are Instances of that proud and daring Mind which could not brook Submission even to Omnipotence . Satan was now at hand , and from his Seat The Monster moving onward came as fast With horrid strides , Hell trembled as he strode , Th ' undaunted Fiend what this might be admir 'd , Admired , not fear 'd -- The same Boldness and Intrepidity of Behaviour discovers it self in the several Adventures which he meets with during his Passage through the Regions of unformed Matter , and particularly in his Address to those tremendous Powers who are described as presiding over it . The Part of Moloch is likewise in all its Circumstances full of that Fire and Fury which distinguish this Spirit from the rest of the fallen Angels . He is described in the first Book as besmeared with the Blood of Human Sacrifices , and delighted with the Tears of Parents and the Cries of Children . In the Second Book he is marked out as the fiercest Spirit that fought in Heaven : and if we consider the Figure which he makes in the Sixth Book , where the Battle of the Angels is described , we find it every way answerable to the same furious enraged Character . -- Where the might of Gabriel fought , And with fierce Ensigns pierc 'd the deep array Of Moloc , furious King , who him defy 'd , And at his chariot wheels to drag him bound Threatened , nor from the Holy one of Heavn Refrain 'd his tongue blasphemous ; but anon Down cloven to the waste , with shatter 'd arms And uncouth pain fled bellowing. -- It may be worth while to observe , that Milton has represented this violent impetuous Spirit , who is hurried only by such precipitate Passions , as the first that rises in that Assembly , to give his Opinion upon their present Posture of Affairs . Accordingly he declares himself abruptly for War , and appears incensed at his Companions , for losing so much Time as even to deliberate upon it . All his Sentiments are Rash , Audacious and Desperate . Such is that of arming themselves with their Tortures , and turning their Punishments upon him who inflicted them . -- No , let us rather chuse , Arm 'd with Hell flames and fury , all at once O'er Heavens high tow'rs to force resistless way , Turning our tortures into horrid arms Against the Torturer ; when to meet the Noise Of his almighty Engine he shall hear Infernal Thunder , and for Lightning see Black fire and horror shot with equal rage Among his Angels ; and his throne it self Mixt with Tartarean Sulphur , and strange Fire , His own invented Torments -- His preferring Annihilation to Shame or Misery , is also highly suitable to his Character ; as the Comfort he draws from their disturbing the Peace of Heaven , that if it be not Victory it is Revenge , is a Sentiment truly Diabolical , and becoming the Bitterness of this implacable Spirit . Belial is described in the first Book , as the Idol of the Lewd and Luxurious . He is in the Second Book , pursuant to that Description , characterised as timorous and slothful ; and if we look in the Sixth Book , we find him celebrated in the Battel of Angels for nothing but that scoffing Speech which he makes to Satan , on their supposed Advantage over the Enemy . As his Appearance is uniform , and of a Piece , in these three several Views , we find his Sentiments in the Infernal Assembly every way conformable to his Character . Such are his Apprehensions of a second Battel , his Horrors of Annihilation , his preferring to be miserable rather than not to be . I need not observe , that the Contrast of Thought in this Speech , and that which precedes it , gives an agreeable Variety to the Debate . Mammon 's Character is so fully drawn in the First Book , that the Poet adds nothing to it in the Second . We were before told , that he was the first who taught Mankind to ransack the Earth for Gold and Silver , and that he was the Architect of Pandmonium , or the Infernal Place , where the Evil Spirits were to meet in Council . His Speech in this Book is every way suitable to so depraved a Character . How proper is that Reflection , of their being unable to taste the Happiness of Heaven were they actually there , in the Mouth of one , who while he was in Heaven , is said to have had his Mind dazled with the outward Pomps and Glories of the Place , and to have been more intent on the Riches of the Pavement , than on the Beatifick Vision . I shall also leave the Reader to judge how agreeable the following Sentiments are to the same Character . -- This deep World Of Darkness do we dread ? How oft amidst Thick cloud and dark doth Heavns all-ruling Sire Chuse to reside , his Glory umobscured , And with the Majesty of Darkness round Covers his Throne ; from whence deep Thunders roar Mustering their Rage , and Heavn resembles Hell ? As he our Darkness , can not we his Light Imitate when we please ? This desart Soil Wants not her hidden Lustre , Gems and Gold ; Nor want we Skill or Art , from whence to raise Magnificence ; and what can Heavn shew more ? Beelzebub , who is reckoned the second in Dignity that fell , and is , in the First Book , the second that awakens out of the Trance , and confers with Satan upon the Situation of their Affairs , maintains his Rank in the Book now before us . There is a wonderful Majesty described in his rising up to speak . He acts as a kind of Moderator between the two opposite Parties , and proposes a third Undertaking , which the whole Assembly gives into . The Motion he makes of detaching one of their Body in search of a new World is grounded upon a Project devised by Satan , and cursorily proposed by him in the following Lines of the first Book . Space may produce new Worlds , whereof so rife There went a Fame in Heavn , that he erelong Intended to create , and therein plant A Generation , whom his choice Regard Should favour equal to the Sons of Heaven : Thither , if but to pry , shall be perhaps Our first Eruption , thither or elsewhere : For this Infernal Pit shall never hold Celestial Spirits in Bondage , nor th ' Abyss Long under Darkness cover . But these Thoughts Full Counsel must mature : -- It is on this Project that Beelzebub grounds his Proposal . -- What if we find Some easier Enterprise ? There is a Place ( If ancient and prophetick Fame in Heavn Err not ) another World , the happy Seat Of some new Race call 'd MAN , about this Time To be created like to us , though less In Power and Excellence , but favoured more Of him who rules above ; so was his Will Pronounc 'd among the Gods , and by an Oath , That shook Heavns whole Circumference , confirm 'd . The Reader may observe how just it was not to omit in the First Book the Project upon which the whole Poem turns : As also that the Prince of the fallen Angels was the only proper Person to give it Birth , and that the next to him in Dignity was the fittest to second and support it . There is besides , I think , something wonderfully Beautiful , and very apt to affect the Readers Imagination in this ancient Prophecy or Report in Heaven , concerning the Creation of Man . Nothing could shew more the Dignity of the Species , than this Tradition which ran of them before their Existence . They are represented to have been the Talk of Heaven , before they were created . Virgil , in compliment to the Roman Commonwealth , makes the Heroes of it appear in their State of Pre-existence ; but Milton does a far greater Honour to Man-kind in general , as he gives us a Glimpse of them even before they are in Being . The rising of this great Assembly is described in a very Sublime and Poetical Manner . Their rising all at once was as the Sound Of Thunder heard remote -- The Diversions of the fallen Angels , with the particular Account of their Place of Habitation , are described with great Pregnancy of Thought , and Copiousness of Invention . The Diversions are every way suitable to Beings who had nothing left them but Strength and Knowledge misapplied . Such are their Contentions at the Race , and in Feats of Arms , with their Entertainment in the following Lines . Others with vast Typhan rage more fell Rend up both Rocks and Hills , and ride the Air In Whirlwind ; Hell scarce holds the wild Uproar . Their Musick is employed in celebrating their own criminal Exploits , and their Discourse in sounding the unfathomable Depths of Fate , Free-will and Fore-knowledge . The several Circumstances in the Description of Hell are finely imagined ; as the four Rivers which disgorge themselves into the Sea of Fire , the Extreams of Cold and Heat , and the River of Oblivion . The monstrous Animals produced in that Infernal World are represented by a single Line , which gives us a more horrid Idea of them , than a much longer Description would have done . -- Nature breeds , Perverse , all monstrous , all prodigious Things , Abominable , inutterable , and worse Than Fables yet have feign 'd , or Fear conceiv 'd , Gorgons , and Hydras , and Chimeras dire . This Episode of the fallen Spirits , and their Place of Habitation , comes in very happily to unbend the Mind of the Reader from its Attention to the Debate 