`` What is properly called the town of Shumla , is nearly surrounded by a rampart of Mount Hmus , or the Balkan , which descends on both sides in the form of a horse-shoe . The steep slopes of this great fence are covered with detached rocks and close thorny bushes . The nature of the ground makes it a most advantageous position for the Turkish soldier , who when sheltered by these inequalities , rapid steeps and a few intrenchments , displays all the address of the most skilful marksman . Like some orators , who can not express themselves unless when partly concealed by a table or tribunal , the Turk can not use his musket unless he can rest it on a stone or against the trunk of a tree , but then his aim is infallible . `` The town is about a league in length , with half that breadth , and may contain from thirty to thirty-five thousand souls . The fortifications are of barbarian architecture ; a ditch , with a simple rampart , partly of earth , partly of brick , flanked here and there with little towers , which serve neither for support nor resistance , and which contain not above seven or eight fusileers . But it is not the town itself which is to be considered , but the vast intrenched field in the centre of which it is placed , and which is capable of containing an immense army , with its magazines , its utensils and equipage , without the enemy having the power to throw a single shell into the place , or disturb it by any manoeuvre whatever . `` The air is extremely healthy in the elevated positions of the Balkan and in the narrow valleys which lie between its ridges ... . On the other hand , there can not be a more unhealthy country than that which extends from the Balkan to the borders of the Danube and Pruth . This difference between the climate of the mountains and the plain is the most formidable defence which nature has given Shumla . While the enemy is encamped in wet grounds and pestilential marshes , in want of wood , of provisions , and sometimes of men in health to take care of the sick ; the Turks breathe a keen , dry air , and have an inexhaustible supply of fuel in the forests which surround them . In summer , Shumla is an agreeable abode ; the town is surrounded by pleasant gardens , by vineyards , and a stream running from the mountains maintains the verdure of the fields . In time of peace it may be entered without hindrance , and the Turks allow the curious to walk about and survey all the posts . In this there is perhaps a secret pride , joined with the wish to communicate to others the conviction which they themselves feel , that the place is inexpugnable . '' * * * * * COURT FLATTERY . Here is a draught of `` delicious essence , '' proffered by the lord of the Burmese granaries to the British embassy : -- '' The most glorious monarch , the lord of the golden palace , the sunrising king , holds dominion over that part of the world which lies towards the rising sun ; the great and powerful monarch , the King of England , rules over the whole of that portion of the world which lies towards the setting sun . The same glorious sun enlightens the one and the other . Thus may peace continue between the two countries , and for ever impart mutual blessings to both . Let no cloud intervene , or mist arise , to obscure its genial rays . '' * * * * * A BARGAIN . The Archbishop of Saltzburg paid , in 1745 , 995 scudi for his pallium , and 31,338 for his confirmation ; i.e . ( roughly speaking ) about 7,000_l_ . The pallium consists of two stripes of white wool , cut from two lambs offered up , in St. Agnes 's Church , on St. Agnes 's Day , spun into a sort of cloth by the nuns of St. Agnes , and consecrated by the Pope on the altar of St. Peter 's . * * * * * CITY PAGEANTS . In the reign of James I. the sober liverymen of London decked themselves , on days of state , with chains of gold , pearl , or diamonds . The wealthy merchant , Sir Paul Pindar , had a diamond valued at thirty thousand pounds , which he lent to the king on great occasions , but refused to sell . It was said by the Prince of Anhalt , in 1610 , after seeing `` the pleasant triumphs upon the water , and within the city , which at this time , were extraordinary , in honour of the lord mayor and citizens , '' that `` there was no state nor city in the world that did elect their magistrates with such magnificence , except the city of Venice , unto which the city of London cometh very near . '' These exhibitions were more splendid , and , though quaint and whimsical , savoured more of intellect and invention than the similar `` triumphs '' of the present day. -- _Quarterly Review_ . * * * * * Brussels is rapidly advancing in the art of printing ; one individual published no less than 250,000 volumes in the year 1827 . Books are published much cheaper than in Paris , which creates no small jealousy there . Didot projected to bring his press into Brussels , but found that he had been forestalled by the labours of more than one printer . Neither the type nor the paper equal the printing of London or Edinburgh , or perhaps Paris ; but they are daily improving , and an immense number of books are exported. -- _New Mon . Mag_ . * * * * * Huber , a German priest , relates a curious instance , in his own experience , of the mischief done by hasty proceedings . When he first went to his parish , he found , to his great disgust , only the common books of devotion , viz. : -- P . Cochem , the Great and Little Garden , the Spiritual Soul-watcher , & c. The very first occasion which offered , he attacked these books publicly and vehemently from the pulpit . The people were shocked and offended ; they said that their fathers knew how to pray as well as fresh teachers , and would not look at his new volumes of prayer . Taught by his ill success to vary his plan , on a subsequent occasion he took occasion to speak in proper terms of respect of the piety of the composers of those early books , but added that many improvements , as they all knew , were constantly making in agriculture , masonry , & c. , and so they must see that this might be the case with books . He then proceeded in the pulpit to compare the old and one of his new books of devotion , and before the evening he had numerous applications for copies. -- _Foreign Quarterly Review_ . * * * * * MOONLIGHT . When sunbeams on the river blaze , You on its glory scarce can gaze ; But when the moon 's delirious beam , In giddy splendour woos the stream , Its mellow 'd light is so refined , 'T is like a gleam of soul and mind ; Its gentle ripple glittering by , Like twinkle of a maiden 's eye ; While all amazed at Heaven 's steepness , You gaze into its liquid deepness , And see some beauties that excel -- Visions to dream of , not to tell -- A downward soul of living hue , So mild , so modest , and so blue ! _Ettrick Shepherd_ . * * * * * PERILS OF TRAVEL . Humboldt and his party , on their memorable ascent of the volcano of Tunguragna , in the Nevado del Chimborazo , at the elevation of 19,300 feet , the highest spot ever trod by man , suffered severely . The air was reduced to half its usual density , and felt intensely cold and piercing . Respiration was laborious ; and blood oozed from their eyes , their lips , and their gums . Another peculiarity of great elevations , noticed by travellers , is the astonishing clearness of the atmosphere . Captain Head was struck with it in the case of a condor shot , which appeared to fall within thirty or forty yards ; but on sending one of his miners to bring it back , to his astonishment he found that the distance was such , as to take up above half an hour , going and returning . In Norway , a friend of the present writer stepped out of a boat to visit a spot , as he conceived , of a few hundred yards distant , when in fact it proved to be some miles . In the Pyrenees , the celebrated cascade of Gavarni appears about a short mile from the auberge , where travellers frequently leave their mules to rest , while they proceed on foot , little aware that they are thereby exposing themselves to a long and laborious walk of above an hour 's duration . In the Andes , Humboldt remarks this phenomenon ; stating that in the mountains of Quito he could distinguish the white poncho of a person on horseback , at the distance of seventeen miles . He also notices the extreme clear and steady light of the stars , which we can vouch to be true to a most extraordinary degree even in Europe , having distinctly seen the planet Venus , in a dazzling sunshine , at half past eleven , from the summit of the port of Venasque , in the Pyrenees . _London Review_ . * * * * * TITLES . Everybody knows that titles and dignities are not only integral parts of the person , but its most distinctive attributes . When Earl Grey said he would stand or fall by his order , it was as if he had said , he would stand or fall by himself . Take a noble lord , and , if the process be possible , abstract him mentally from his titles and privileges , and offer the two lots separately for sale in the market , who would not buy the latter if they could ? who would , in most cases , even bid for the first ? It is the title that is asked everywhere to dinner ; it is the title receives all the bows and prostrations , that gets the nomination to so many places , that commands the regiments and ships-of-war , and '' robs the Exchequer with unwashed hands . '' The man who owns it , may be what he can , an honest man , or a scoundrel , a mushroom or an Howard , a scholar , or a brute , a wit or a blockhead , _c'est gal_ . Proud , haughty , highdaring , free England , is not this true to the letter ? -- _New Monthly Magazine_ . * * * * * At Thetford , not far from his beloved Newmarket , James I. was threatened with an action of trespass for following his game over a farmer's corn. -- _Quarterly Review_ . * * * * * SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS . * * * * * '' SIR DAN DANN'LY , THE IRISH HAROE . '' _From `` Walks in Ireland , '' in the Monthly Magazine._ In spite of all that yet remains , it must be admitted with a sigh , that the glory of Donnybrook has departed in the person of the renowned Daniel Donnelly , better known among his admiring followers , by the sounding title of `` Sir Dan Dann'ly , the Irish haroe . '' Of course if you know any thing of the glorious science of self-defence , a necessary accomplishment which I hope you have not neglected amidst the general diffusion of knowledge which distinguishes this happy age , of course if you have cultivated that noble art which teaches us the superiority of practical demonstration over theoretical induction , the recollection of that celebrated champion must fill your mind with reverence for his exploits , mingled with regret that he was snatched so soon from the path of glory . I was fortunate enough to possess the friendship of that great man , and I esteem among the happiest days of my life , that on which I was lucky enough to attract his attention : it was during a _row_ at Donnybrook Fair . I was defending myself with whatever energy I possess , against overwhelming odds , when suddenly , as if Mars himself had listened to my invocation , and descended to the fray , Dan rushed from his tent to show fair play , and in an instant my cowardly assailants fled , as if scattered by a whirlwind . From that hour , gratitude on my part , and a consciousness of protection on his , cemented an intimacy between us . During the fair week , Dan Donnelly 's tent ( he always kept one after he became a celebrated character ) was always crowded to excess by all classes , high and low ; some attracted by admiration of the good things of this life dispensed by the amiable Lady Dann'ly , others by the convivial and facetious qualities of her redoubted spouse ; in the evening , especially , you were sure to find him the centre of a circle of wondering listeners , detailing some of his extraordinary adventures , the most astonishing of which it was heresy in the eyes of his followers to doubt for an instant , though my love of truth obliges me to confess , that one or two I have heard him relate sounded a little apocryphal . But great and extraordinary characters are not to be judged of by common rules ; for instance , his account of the manner in which he obtained the honour of knighthood from the hands of our present gracious sovereign , then Prince Regent , always appeared to me to differ in some material circumstances from the ordinary routine of court etiquette , and rather to resemble one of those amusing and instructive narratives denominated fairy tales . But on this delicate subject perhaps the safest course is to suffer the reader to judge for himself : so without further circumlocution , I will submit my lamented friend 's account to his perusal , in the precise words in which I have so often had the pleasure of hearing it : -- '' My jewels , I was lyin ' in bed one mornin ' , restin ' myself , in regard ov bein ' dhrunk the night afore , wid Scroggins an ' Jack Randall , an ' some more ov the boys ; an ' as I was lyin ' on the broad ov my back , thinkin' ov nothin ' , a knock came to my door . 'Come in , ' says I , 'iv you 're fat . ' So the door opened sure enough , an ' in come a great big chap , dhressed in the most elegantest way ever you see , wid a cockade in his hat , an ' a plume ov feathers out ov id , an ' goolden epulets upon his shouldhers , an ' tossels an ' bobs of goold all over the coat ov him , jist like any lord ov the land . 'Are you Dan Dann'ly , ' says he ; -- 'Throth an ' I am , ' says I ; 'an ' that 's my name sure enough , for want ov a better ; an ' what do ye want wid me now you 've found me . ' -- 'My masther is waitin ' to spake to ye , an ' sint me to tell you to come down to his place in a hurry . ' -- 'An ' who the devil _is_ your masther ? ' says I ; 'an ' didn't think ye had one , only yourself , an ' you so fine . ' -- 'Oh , ' says he , 'my masther is the Prence Ragin . ' -- 'Blur an ' ouns , ' says I ; 'tell his honour I 'll be wid him in the twinklin ' ov a bedpost , the minit I take my face from behind my beard , an ' get on my clane flax ; but stop a bit , ' says I ; 'where does the masther live ? ' -- 'Down at Carltown Palace , ' says he ; 'so make yourself dacent , an ' be off wid yourself afther me . ' Wid that away he wint . `` Up I gets , an ' away I goes , the instant minit I put on my duds , down to Carltown Palace . An ' it 's it that 's the place ; twicet as big as the castle , or Kilmainham gaol , an ' groves ov threes round about it , like the Phaynix Park . Up I goes 