Boil the sugar , vinegar , and cinnamon together until they begin to look sirupy . Wash the peaches and rub off the fuzz . Stick one or two cloves into each peach , and drop the peaches into the sirup . Cook them until they may be easily pierced with a fork . Put them into jars , pour the sirup over them , filling each jar , and seal while hot . Allow the jars to cool and store . The peaches may be peeled if desired . It may also be more convenient to cook only part of the peaches in the sirup at one time , cooking the remainder after these have been taken out and put into jars . 97 . PICKLED PEARS. -- Pears also lend themselves readily to pickling . Specific directions are not given here , because they are pickled in exactly the same way as peaches . The pears may be peeled or not , as desired . 98 . PICKLED CRAB APPLES. -- Crab apples that are to be pickled should preferably be of a large variety . The directions given for pickling peaches apply also to this fruit . The crab apples should be examined carefully to make certain that they contain no worms . Also , the stems should be left on , and they should be washed thoroughly with the blossom ends cut out . RELISHES 99 . MUSTARD PICKLES. -- Among the relishes , mustard pickles are very popular . This relish is made up of a large number of vegetables , namely , cucumbers , string beans , green peppers , red sweet peppers , onions , green tomatoes , cauliflower , and green Lima beans . MUSTARD PICKLES 1 pt . small cucumbers 1 qt . string beans 4 green peppers 4 red sweet peppers 1 pt . small onions 1 pt . green tomatoes 1 pt . cauliflower 1 c. green Lima beans 3/4 c. flour 2 c. sugar 4 Tb . powdered mustard 2 tsp . tumeric 1 Tb . celery seed 1 Tb . salt 1/2 tsp . pepper 1 qt . vinegar 1 pt . water Wash all the vegetables and prepare them by cutting them into the desired sizes . The onions and cucumbers should be of a size that will not require cutting . Put all the vegetables together , cover them with salt water made by adding 1 cupful of salt to each 2 quarts of water , and allow them to stand in this for 24 hours . At the end of this time , drain off the brine and freshen the vegetables in clear water for about 2 hours . Mix the dry ingredients together , heat the vinegar and water , and pour it over all . Bring this mixture to the boiling point , and pour it over the vegetables . Fill the jars with the hot mixture , seal , cool , and store . 100 . SPANISH RELISH. -- Another satisfactory relish made up of a large number of vegetables and spices is Spanish relish . In its preparation , however , the vegetables are not chopped very fine . SPANISH RELISH 12 green sweet peppers 12 red sweet peppers 12 medium-sized onions 12 green tomatoes 2 medium-sized heads of cabbage 1 tsp . salt 1 lb . brown sugar 1/2 tsp . black pepper 1/4 tsp . Cayenne pepper 1 Tb . mustard seed 1 tsp . celery seed 1-1/2 qt . vinegar Wash the vegetables and chop them into coarse pieces . Cover them with salt water made by adding 1 cupful of salt to a gallon of water and allow them to stand in this brine for 6 to 8 hours . At the end of this time , drain off the salt water and wash with clear water . Add the salt , sugar , and spices to the vinegar , and bring this mixture to the boiling point . Then pour it over the mixture of vegetables , pack all into sterilized crocks or jars , seal , cool , and store . 101 . CHOW CHOW. -- Still another relish in which a variety of vegetables is used is chow chow . This relish is well and favorably known to housewives for the zest it imparts to meals . CHOW CHOW 2 qt . small green tomatoes 6 green peppers 6 red peppers 1 small head of cabbage 2 bunches celery 1 pt . small onions 1 qt . small cucumbers 3 qt . vinegar 1 Tb . salt 2 c. brown sugar 1/2 tsp . black pepper 2 Tb . mustard seed 2 Tb . tumeric 2 Tb . allspice 1 Tb . cloves 1 Tb . cinnamon Wash the vegetables and cut them into very small pieces . Cover them with salt water made by adding 1 cupful of salt to a gallon of water , and let them stand in this for 6 to 8 hours . Drain at the end of this time , and wash with cold water . Heat the vinegar , and to it add the salt , sugar , and spices . Add this to the vegetables and cook until they are soft . Pack into sterilized jars , seal while hot , cool , and store . 102 . BEET RELISH. -- A relish in which cooked beets are the principal ingredient may be made up from the accompanying recipe . As pickled beets in any form are usually well liked , this relish may be put up for the variety it offers . BEET RELISH 1 qt . cooked beets , chopped 1 c. horseradish root , grated 1 c. vinegar 1 Tb . salt 1/2 c. sugar 1 tsp . cinnamon 1 tsp . cloves Cook the beets in the usual way . When they are tender , remove the skins and chop quite fine . Add the grated horseradish to the beets . To the vinegar , add the salt , sugar , and spices and heat to the boiling point . Pour this mixture over the vegetable mixture , pack all into hot sterilized jars , seal , cool , and store . 103 . CHILLI SAUCE. -- Chilli sauce is a well-known relish in which ripe tomatoes , red or green peppers , and onions are combined with spices and vinegar . Although not so many vegetables are used in this relish as in those which precede , it merits a place among the canned foods prepared for future use . CHILLI SAUCE 2 qt . medium-sized ripe tomatoes 2 red or green peppers , finely chopped 2 onions , finely chopped 2 c. vinegar 1/2 c. sugar 1 Tb . salt 1 tsp . ground cloves 2 tsp . ground cinnamon 2 tsp . celery salt Blanch the tomatoes in boiling water until the skins loosen . Then remove the skins and stem ends , chop the tomatoes , and put them into a preserving kettle with the chopped peppers and chopped onions . Heat gradually to the boiling point , add the vinegar , sugar , salt , and spices , and cook slowly until the mixture is quite thick . This will require from 2 to 3 hours . Then put the hot sauce into sterilized bottles or jars , seal , allow them to cool , and store . 104 . GREEN-TOMATO PICKLE. -- A pleasing relish may be made from green tomatoes after the frost has come in the fall and tomatoes on the vines will not mature . GREEN-TOMATO PICKLE 3 qt . green tomatoes , sliced 2 qt . onions , sliced 1 qt . vinegar 1 pt . water 1 Tb . salt 1-1/2 lb . brown sugar 2 Tb . cinnamon 2 tsp . cloves 2 tsp . allspice 3 Tb . celery salt 1 Tb . mustard seed Select firm green tomatoes , wash them , and slice them . Peel the onions , and slice them into slices of the same thickness as the tomatoes , about 1/4 inch being perhaps the most desirable . Mix the tomatoes and onions , sprinkle them generously with salt , and allow them to stand for 24 hours . At the end of this time , pour off any excess liquid ; then pour a small quantity of fresh water over them , and drain this off , also . To the vinegar and water , add the salt , sugar , and spices . Heat this mixture to the boiling point , pour it over the mixture of tomatoes and onions , and put into jars . Seal the jars while hot , allow them to cool , and then store . 105 . RIPE-TOMATO PICKLE. -- Ripe tomatoes form the basis of another relish known as ripe-tomato pickle . Like other relishes in which tomatoes are used , this relish is very satisfactory for meals in which pickles or relishes may be served . RIPE-TOMATO PICKLE 2 qt . ripe tomatoes 2 bunches celery 3 red sweet peppers 3 medium-sized onions 1 qt . vinegar 1 Tb . salt 1 c. sugar 1 Tb . mustard seed 1 Tb . ground cloves 1 Tb . ground cinnamon Blanch the tomatoes until the skins loosen , and then peel them . Remove the stem ends , and cut the tomatoes into quite large pieces . Chop the celery , peppers , and onions coarsely . Cook together until they are almost tender . Pour off the water . Mix all the vegetables together , and pack them into a sterilized stone jar . To the vinegar , add the salt , sugar and spices . Boil and pour this mixture over the vegetables in the stone jar , cover , and allow this to stand at least 2 weeks before using . 106 . TOMATO CATSUP. -- As a condiment to be served with meats , oysters , fish , baked beans , and other foods high in protein , catsup finds considerable use . This relish , which is also called _catchup_ and _ketchup_ , may be made from both vegetables and fruits , but that made from tomatoes seems to be the most desirable to the majority . TOMATO CATSUP 1/2 bu . ripe tomatoes 1/2 c. salt 1 lb . brown sugar 2 qt . vinegar 1 Tb . ground cinnamon 1 tsp . Cayenne pepper 2 Tb . celery salt 2 tsp . ground cloves Remove the skins from the tomatoes by blanching and cut out the stem ends . Then slice the tomatoes , put them into a preserving kettle over the fire , cook them until they are soft , and force them through a sieve to remove the seeds . Return the pulp to the preserving kettle , add the salt , sugar , vinegar , and spices , and cook the mixture until it is reduced at least half in quantity . Pour into sterilized bottles , seal , cool , and store . 107 . GRAPE CATSUP. -- Perhaps the best-known catsup made from fruit is grape catsup . Its uses are practically the same as those of tomato catsup , and it is made in much the same way . GRAPE CATSUP 4 qt . Concord grapes 3 c. vinegar 1 lb . brown sugar 2 Tb . cinnamon 1 tsp . cloves 1 tsp . allspice Put the grapes to cook with the vinegar . When they have cooked soft enough , press through a sieve to remove the seeds and skins . Add the sugar and spices , and cook until the mixture is rather thick . Stir constantly to prevent scorching . Pour into sterilized bottles , seal , cool , and store . 108 . PICKLED WATERMELON RIND. -- An unusual , though highly satisfactory , relish may be made from the rind of melons . The accompanying recipe is for pickled watermelon rind , but if desired muskmelon rind may be substituted . In either case , only the white part of the rind should be used . PICKLED WATERMELON RIND 4 qt . watermelon rind cut into strips or cubes 1 oz . stick cinnamon 1 Tb . cloves 1 c. water 3 lb . sugar 1 qt . vinegar Prepare the rind by cutting off the green skin and all the pink flesh on the inside . Cut this rind into strips 1 inch wide and 1 inch thick , and then into cubes , if desired . Cook in water until the rind may be easily pierced with a fork . Add the spices , water , and sugar to the vinegar , and boil until it becomes sirupy . Add to this sirup the cooked watermelon rind and bring to the boiling point . Then pack into sterilized jars , seal , cool , and store . 109 . CRAB-APPLE RELISH. -- Among the fruits , crab apples lend themselves best to the making of relish . By the addition of oranges , raisins , and spices , as in this recipe , crab-apple relish is made very desirable and agreeable to the taste . CRAB-APPLE RELISH 4 qt . crab apples 3 c. vinegar 4 oranges 4 lb . brown sugar 2 lb . Sultana raisins 1 Tb . powdered cinnamon 1 tsp . cloves 1 tsp . allspice Wash the crab apples , remove the cores , and cut the apples into small pieces . Put them into a preserving kettle , add the vinegar , the oranges , peeled and sliced , the sugar , the raisins , and the spices . Cook all slowly until the apples are soft . Pour into sterilized jars or glasses , seal , cool , and store . * * * * * JELLY MAKING , PRESERVING , AND PICKLING EXAMINATION QUESTIONS ( 1 ) ( _a_ ) Give three reasons why the making and use of jelly has value . ( _b_ ) When are pickles permissible in the diet ? ( 2 ) What is necessary for the making of good jelly ? ( 3 ) Mention some important points to consider in selecting fruit for jelly making . ( 4 ) ( _a_ ) What is pectin ? ( _b_ ) Why are ripe fruits not so satisfactory for jelly making as partly green ones ? ( 5 ) Give the test for pectin . ( 6 ) How may jelly be made from fruit juices that do not contain pectin ? ( 7 ) Give the best method of extracting fruit juice for jelly . ( 8 ) What material is best for jelly bags ? Why ? ( 9 ) What is the general proportion of sugar and juice for making : ( _a_ ) jelly from very sour fruits ? ( _b_ ) jelly from slightly sour fruits ? ( 10 ) Give the method for making jelly by the mean-boiling method . ( 11 ) What is meant by : ( _a_ ) short boiling ? ( _b_ ) long boiling ? ( 12 ) Give two tests for determining when jelly has cooked sufficiently . ( 13 ) ( _a_ ) How should glasses be prepared before filling them with jelly ? ( _b_ ) How are glasses closed for storing ? ( 14 ) ( _a_ ) What are preserves ? ( _b_ ) What kind of fruits should be selected for preserves ? ( 15 ) Describe the best method of making preserves . ( 16 ) How do conserves differ from preserves ? ( 17 ) How do marmalades differ from conserves ? ( 18 ) Describe jam . ( 19 ) How does fruit butter differ from jams ? ( 20 ) What are : ( _a_ ) pickles ? ( _b_ ) relishes ? * * * * * CONFECTIONS * * * * * NATURE AND COMPOSITION NATURE OF CONFECTIONS 1 . CONFECTIONS are such sweetmeats as candy and similar articles , which have for their foundation sugar , sirup , honey , and the like . As is well known , the most important variety of confection is candy , and this is the one that is usually meant when the term confections is mentioned . Confections , however , are not so limited as might be imagined upon first thought , for many delicious dishes whose main ingredient is nuts , fruits , coconut , or pop corn are also placed in this class . To be sure , most of these contain sweetening material of some sort in greater or smaller quantities . Therefore , in its broadest sense , confections may be regarded as preparations having for their chief ingredient sugar or substances containing it , such as molasses , honey , etc. , usually mixed with other food materials , such as nuts , fruits , chocolate , starches , and fats , to give them body and consistency , and flavored and colored in any desired way . 2 . The making of confections , and of candy in particular , is both a useful and a delightful pastime that can be indulged in even by those who are only slightly skilled . In fact , with a certain amount of knowledge of the methods used and a little practice , surprising results can be obtained by the amateur candy maker . Then , too , it is a comparatively simple matter to copy the confectioner 's work . A considerable variety of candies can often be made from a simple foundation material if a little originality or ingenuity is applied . Since it is an easy matter to prepare foods of this 