Produced by Juliet Sutherland , Emmy and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team . ( www.pgdp.net ) [ Illustration : THE GREAT ROUND WORLD AND WHAT IS GOING ON IN IT . ] VOL . 1 DECEMBER 30 , 1897 . NO . 60 =Copyright , 1897 , by THE GREAT ROUND WORLD Publishing Company.= * * * * * The heavens are affording us an interesting study just now . Our kind old friend , the sun , it is who is giving us this benefit . One of the largest sun-spots which has ever been observed is now to be seen . So large is this spot that it is not necessary to look through a telescope to see it . By using a smoked glass , to dim the intense light of the sun , any one can look at the spot for himself . Nowadays , when all persons connected with the daily papers are on the lookout for some startling fact that shall sell their newspapers , such an occurrence as the enormous increase in the size of a sun-spot is too good to be let slip by them . Extra editions about the sun-spot were issued by some of the most enterprising journals , which contained sensational pictures , and statements that the sun-spot was in fact a new world which was about to burst forth from the body of the sun . According to these accounts , the new world was to be sent whirling through space , hurled , as it were , at our earth , which was to be shattered to pieces by it . Except that such stories serve to call the attention of unscientific people to scientific facts , and teach them to observe the wonders of the universe , it really seems a shame that such marvels should be used as bogies to scare the ignorant and superstitious . As a matter of fact , very little is known about these sun-spots . They occur in greatest numbers in periods of about eleven years apart , and astronomers and geologists agree that periods of rainy and dry seasons seem to correspond with the sun-spot periods . When the greatest number of spots are visible on the sun , scientists agree that the climatic conditions on the earth are normal and even . When there are fewest spots on the sun we have extreme temperature and sudden changes . When we say that astronomers and geologists agree on this point , we must also admit that some astronomers are not quite satisfied that the fact has been proved . The only fact that has been actually proved to everybody 's satisfaction is that , during the time when the most spots are visible on the sun , there are always more magnetic storms and displays of the aurora borealis . A magnetic storm is a disturbance of the magnetic field which surrounds the earth ; its presence is shown by a disturbance of the needle of the compass , and it often interferes with the electrical currents , making it difficult and sometimes impossible to use the telegraph-wires . The aurora borealis is a wonderful light seen in the sky in high latitudes , and less frequently in other parts of the world -- except during the activity of the sun-spots . It appears as irregular patches and dancing columns of light which flame across the sky . Red , white , pale green -- these shafts are now dim , now bright , seeming to throb and pulse as they glow and pale . As you watch them they change their form , and , from being pillars of fire , change to masses of glowing color . A flash-light dancing across the sky gives you some , though a very poor notion , of an aurora . The aurora has thousands of such flashes of light , changing form and color as you watch them -- filmy shafts of light , coming you know not whence . The spots on the sun are described as being dark patches which are visible on the bright surface of the sun . They often appear in groups , and frequently the larger spots will break up into smaller ones . They are great depressions or holes in the surface of the sun , and are supposed to be formed by descending currents of gases . Sun-spots are generally found in the neighborhood of the sun 's equator , and last from a few hours to a few months . The presence of these spots has enabled scientists to prove that the sun , like the earth , revolves on its axis . The last period of activity for sun-spots was in 1893 , and , according to the eleven-year theory , there should be few , if any , at this time . Prof. Garret P. Serviss , however , tells us that at times during the quiet period of the sun , large spots like the present one will appear on its surface , and after assuming immense proportions , vanish . The present phenomenon appears to be about one hundred thousand miles in length , and some people insist that they can see it gradually detaching itself from the sun and forming itself into a new world . This is regarded as a hoax by scientific men who understand such matters . It is hard to prove exactly whether the present great sun-spot is a large hole in the surface of the sun , or a large mass of the body of the sun which is about to be detached from it ; but in all such matters it is wiser to take the most practical and least sensational view . Similar phenomena to that which is now interesting us have been observed before , and so , until we have proof to the contrary , it is more sensible to believe it is a sun-spot than to listen to sensational tales of a new world running wild through space . Sun-spots were first observed about 1610 by Galileo , so they have been known long enough for us to believe that they are not new worlds about to be flung into space . Galileo was the great Italian astronomer who invented the telescope . The chances are that the present sun-spot may give us an opportunity of seeing a fine aurora . In 1892 , when the last large spot was visible , there was a notable aurora . The light rays reached so far south that to the people in New York it appeared like the reflection on the sky from a great fire . * * * * * Francis Kossuth 's effort to get the Austro-Hungarian bill delayed has not been successful . You remember he tried to get the bill referred to a certain committee . His motion was defeated by a large majority . This looks rather promising for the bill which Baron Banffy is trying to get through the House , and which , you remember , is to prolong the contract between the two nations for another year ; at the same time , the best friends of the measure are doubtful if it will be possible to pass it . The mass of the Hungarian people are in sympathy with Kossuth , and would be glad if Hungary could regain her freedom . It is therefore supposed that when the bill comes up for a final hearing , Kossuth will use all his fiery eloquence to dissuade the people from passing it , and that it will be defeated . Persons who are able to look at both sides of the question are of opinion that separation would be a great misfortune for both countries . Austro-Hungary is now a great and powerful kingdom , holding a position in Europe which enables her to preserve the balance of peace in the eastern portion of that troubled continent . With Austria and Hungary divided into two small kingdoms with separate aims and interests , Turkey could not be held in check any longer , and the Russians , who are so full of ambition for power in the East , could do pretty much as they pleased . The Hungarians are supposed to be a very wide-awake people , and able to comprehend the true meaning of a political situation . It is therefore supposed that in the present crisis they are not striving so much for freedom , which would be a disadvantage to them , as for the supremacy in the two kingdoms . This idea is outlined by Kossuth in a speech made by him the other day , in which he said : `` We want a separate army and separate treasury . The King of Hungary should be Emperor of Austria as a sort of extra occupation . Vienna ( the capital of Austria ) is already a suburb of Budapest ( the capital of Hungary ) , and in time Austria will become a collection of provinces attached to Hungary . '' * * * * * Rioting still continues in Prague . The troops are patrolling the street , and special guards have been stationed at the places where outbreaks are feared . Numbers of arrests have been made , and it is said that the prisons are so full that it has been found necessary to take no note of the smaller offenders , and only hold those persons who are accused of serious crimes . In Vienna there has been a demonstration , unfriendly to both Hungarians and Bohemians . One morning the inhabitants of the city awoke to find the town covered with flaming red placards . Some of them read , `` No new compact between Austria and Hungary '' ; and others , `` No language laws . German is the national language . '' These placards naturally aroused a great deal of angry feeling between the opposing parties . The police tore them down , and made every effort to find the persons who had posted them , but without any result . * * * * * The Treaty of Peace between Turkey and Greece has been finally signed by the Powers interested . Little notice has , however , been taken of the fact ; matters in Europe are looking so threatening that the affair of Greece is almost forgotten . It is said that war will break out in the Balkan provinces in the spring , a war which will involve both Turkey and Austria . The Balkan provinces are Servia , Roumania , Bulgaria , and Montenegro . If you look at your map , you will see that they lie between Hungary and Turkey . The Sultan of Turkey is so convinced that such a war can not be avoided , that he is doing everything in his power to raise money for it . He has given orders that the taxes must all be collected by the new year , instead of May , in which month they are generally paid . To accomplish this the unfortunate people , particularly the Christian population , are being very roughly dealt with . It is stated that the Sultan will not recall his troops from Thessaly until the war indemnity has been paid , and that Germany is upholding him in his determination . * * * * * The reports of the various officers of our Government have followed the Message of President McKinley . Every one is somewhat shocked to find that the tariff bill , which was to put such a lot of money in our treasury , has fallen far short of the expected results , and , indeed , has not produced enough revenue to pay the expenses of the Government . If the receipts from customs are not larger during the next few months than they have been during the last , the country will be $ 65,000,000 behind at the end of the year , and Congress will have to devise some plan for raising this sum of money . This means that some new tax will be imposed upon us , for the Government must have the money it needs , and the people must help to make up what is lacking . The friends of the Dingley Bill hope that the custom receipts will increase , and think that the reason they have been so small is that the merchants brought so much stuff into the country before the bill went into effect , that they have not needed to get fresh supplies so far . In short , they claim the Dingley Bill needs a longer trial . The enemies of the measure point out that , as a means of providing an income for the Government , the Dingley Bill has been a failure . We told you about the discussion as to the exact hour at which the bill became a law . The question is not as yet settled . The importers , if you remember , declared that the bill only became a law from the exact hour it was signed ; the Government insists that it was a law from early morning of the day on which it was signed . Seventy-three importers have protested against paying duty for all day July 24th , because the bill was not signed until six minutes past four in the afternoon . It is expected that a final decision will be given shortly , which will put an end to the disagreement . * * * * * Side by side with the fact that there is not enough money in the treasury to meet the country 's expenses , the armor-plate question has come into prominence once more . The naval officers and experts are all crying out against the folly of the Government engaging in the manufacture of armor-plate . The board of naval officers appointed to look into the subject stated , in their report to the Government , that if such a factory is to be maintained , Congress must order the building of three new battleships every year . The reason they give for this is that specially trained workmen are required to operate an armor-plate factory . They think it would be necessary to provide sufficient work every year to keep the factory going . If the factory were to be shut down and the hands discharged , the naval officers declare that the time and money that would have to be spent in training fresh men to undertake the work then would cost the country more than keeping the works open right along . The Carnegie and Bethlehem people have succeeded in getting the Government to test one of their plates made by the new Krupp process . The result of the trial , it is expected , will decide whether the Government shall buy its armor-plate as of old , or enter into the manufacture itself . If the Krupp process is satisfactory , armor-plates will not have to be made so thick , and the smaller quantity of steel in them will perhaps make them cheaper and enable the Government and the manufacturers to agree upon a price that will be satisfactory to both . * * * * * The Secretary of the Treasury has handed in the Currency report mentioned by the President in his Message . It proves to be very dry reading for all but men interested in the money market , and would not interest you at all . He suggests a plan , which is supposed to be a very wise one , for removing all uncertainty about the soundness of our money . It is , however , thought that the plan can not be put into effect at present . The Secretary of the Treasury has also made a report on filibustering , which is much more interesting . Spain has accused us of not taking proper steps to prevent these unlawful expeditions . If she can prove the truth of these accusations , she can demand that we pay her a large sum of money as damages for every expedition that has reached Cuba . She would be quite justified in making these demands if the United States willingly and wilfully helped Cuba to defy Spain , for every shipload of supplies landed enables the Cubans to hold out so much longer against Spain . Under these circumstances , it is interesting to learn from the official statement of the Secretary of the Treasury that we have done our duty to the best of our ability . Mr. Gage 's report , like the Cuban remarks in the Message , has an added interest from the fact that it is absolutely true . Many of the reports we get through the newspapers have to be changed or contradicted , no matter how careful the news-gatherers may have been in selecting their information . This is because the reporters do not have access to the official documents , and are obliged to base their reports upon rumors or uncertain information . When , however , a report comes direct from the Government , there is no hearsay in the matter . Each department of the Government has the documents relating to its business , and the reports it issues are made from the actual letters that have passed between countries -- despatches and diplomatic documents which no outsider can ever hope to see . Here , then , is Mr. Gage 's report on filibustering . He says that during two years and a half only six American vessels are said to have successfully 