The variety of sugar plant called amber cane is not very clearly defined , but it may be taken , from the description of the juice as to crystallizing qualities , as no better sugar producer than sorghum . It , with sorghum , is classed as a sub-variety of sugar cane , which will yield sirup and fodder , but will not crystallize under several months' time , and even then in but small percentage . On the whole it appears , as before stated , that the sugar beet is the only practicable source of sugar for the Northern States , which , as experimentally shown , can be raised at a profit of forty six dollars per acre , against twenty dollars per acre , the profit of sugar making from cane in Louisiana . Upon this showing several beet sugar factories have been started in the United States and in Canada , and their products are said to be satisfactory , and have been sold at a profit in competition with imported beet sugar . Mr. Ware recommends the establishment of beet sugar factories on a larger scale , to be managed by men who have had experience in this particular kind of sugar making , which seems to be a practical means of supplying ourselves with home-made sugar . It must be remembered , however , that the successful cultivation of an ample supply of beets to keep them at work is an essential prerequisite . * * * * * HERALD ISLAND . John Muir , the geologist with the Corwin Arctic Expedition , describes , as follows , the characteristics of Herald Island , hitherto known only as an inaccessible rock seen by a few venturesome whalers and explorers : After so many futile efforts had been made to reach this little ice bound island , everybody seemed wildly eager to run ashore and climb to the summit of its sheer granite cliffs . At first a party of eight jumped from the bowsprit chains and ran across the narrow belt of margin ice and madly began to climb up an excessively steep gully , which came to an end in an inaccessible slope a few hundred feet above the water . Those ahead loosened and sent down a train of granite bowlders , which shot over the heads of those below in a far more dangerous manner than any of the party seemed to appreciate . Fortunately nobody was hurt , and all made out to get down in safety . While this remarkable piece of mountaineering and Arctic exploration was in progress , a light skin-covered boat was dragged over the ice and launched on a strip of water that stretched in front of an accessible ravine , the bed of an ancient glacier , which I felt assured would conduce by an easy grade to the summit of the island . The slope of this ravine for the first hundred feet or so was very steep , but inasmuch as it was full of firm , icy snow , it was easily ascended by cutting steps in the face of it with an ax that I had brought from the ship for the purpose . Beyond this there was not the slightest difficulty in our way , the glacier having graded a fine , broad road . ON THE SUMMIT . Kellet , who discovered this island in 1849 , and landed on it under unfavorable circumstances , describes it as an inaccessible rock . The sides are , indeed , in general , extremely sheer and precipitous all around , though skilled mountaineers would find many gullies and slopes by which they might reach the summit . I first pushed on to the head of the glacier valley , and thence along the back bone of the island to the highest point , which I found to be about twelve hundred feet above the level of the sea . This point is about a mile and a half from the northwest end , and four and a half from the northeast end , thus making the island about six miles in length . It has been cut nearly in two by the glacial action it has undergone , the width at this lowest portion being about half a mile , and the average width about two miles . The entire island is a mass of granite with the exception of a patch of metamorphic slate near the center , and no doubt owes its existence with so considerable a height to the superior resistance this granite offered to the degrading action of the northern ice sheet , traces of which are here plainly shown , as well as on the shores of Siberia and Alaska , and down through Behring Strait , southward , beyond Vancouver Island . Traces of the subsequent partial glaciation it has been subjected to are also manifested in glacial valleys of considerable depth as compared with the size of the island . I noticed four of these , besides many marginal glacial grooves around the sides . One small remnant with feeble action still exists near the middle of the island . I also noted several scored and polished patches on the hardest and most enduring of the outswelling rock bosses . This little island , standing as it does alone out in the Polar Sea , is a fine glacial monument . A MIDNIGHT OBSERVATION . The midnight hour I spent alone on the highest summit , one of the most impressive hours of my life . The deepest silence seemed to press down on all the vast , immeasurable , virgin landscape . The sun near the horizon reddened the edges of belted cloud bars near the base of the sky , and the jagged ice bowlders crowded together over the frozen ocean stretching indefinitely northward , while more than a hundred miles of that mysterious Wrangell Land was seen blue in the northwest -- a wavering line of hill and dale over the white and blue ice prairie and pale gray mountains beyond , well calculated to fix the eye of a mountaineer ; but it was to the far north that I ever found myself turning , where the ice met the sky . I would fain have watched here all the strange night , but was compelled to remember the charge given me by the captain , to make haste and return to the ship as soon as I should find it possible , as there was ten miles of shifting , drifting ice between us and the open sea . PLANT LIFE ON HERALD ISLAND . I therefore began the return journey about one o'clock this morning , after taking the compass bearings of the principal points within sight on Wrangell Land , and making a hasty collection of the flowering plants on my way . I found one species of poppy , quite showy , and making considerable masses of color on the sloping uplands , three or four species of saxifrage , one silene , a draba , dwarf willow , stellaria , two golden composit , two sedges , one grass , and a veronica , together with a considerable number of mosses and lichens , some of them quite showy and so abundant as to form the bulk of the color over the gray granite . INHABITANTS OF THE CLIFFS . Innumerable gulls and murres breed on the steep cliffs , the latter most abundant . They kept up a constant din of domestic notes . Some of them are sitting on their eggs , others have young , and it seems astonishing that either eggs or the young can find a resting place on cliffs so severely precipitous . The nurseries formed a lively picture -- the parents coming and going with food or to seek it , thousands in rows standing on narrow ledges like bottles on a grocer's shelves , the feeding of the little ones , the multitude of wings , etc . * * * * * M. Bouchut 's experiments with pepsine for destroying worms in the stomach and bowels have been continued with extremely promising results . Even the tapeworm succumbs to the digestive action of pepsine in large doses , while the more highly organized tissues of the stomach are unaffected . * * * * * FRANZ LISZT . On the 22d day of October , 1811 , Franz Liszt , the greatest pianist of the last half century , was born at Raiding , in Hungary , and the entire musical world was united in celebrating his seventieth birthday , which took place this year . What can be more appropriate than to take a look at the past and recall some of the important events of Liszt 's so very interesting life ? To recall his first appearance as a `` wonder '' child in his native town , the blessing and kiss he received a few years later from the immortal Beethoven , his great triumphs in the Paris salons and the defeat of his rival Thalberg . After the appearance of the violin virtuoso Paganini , he resolved to attain the highest development of his musical genius and to become so world-renowned as none has been before him , and in this was successful . He has not only maintained his standing as the greatest master of modern piano virtuosos , but has had the greatest influence on his followers and scholars , Taussig , v. Bulow , Mr. and Mme . Bronsart , Menter , and other younger and older pianists who have had the benefits of his instruction for a greater or less length of time , so that it can be justly claimed that the majority of our present virtuosos owe their success and fame directly or indirectly to the abilities of Liszt . Liszt is endowed with that great gift of treating every individual in the manner most favorable to the development of its traces of artistic ability and desires , and this accounts for his wonderful results as instructor and master . [ Illustration : FRANZ LISZT . ] But no picture of Liszt would be perfect without a _rsum_ or recapitulation of his compositions . After a most perfect transposition and preparation of numerous works of Beethoven , Schubert , and Berlioz , and after making their compositions popular and introducing numerous valuable novelties in the art of playing piano , he produced his `` Symphonische Dichtungen '' ( Symphonic Poems ) . These highly dramatic compositions , in which he follows Berlioz and often produces the most astonishing effects of sounds , however , did not find entire approbation with the public , and did not succeed in popularizing themselves . But that fact can be recorded in his favor that every programme containing Liszt 's `` Dante , '' or Faust Symphony , or '' Mazeppa , '' receives more than ordinary attention from the public . The same is the case with his solo songs with piano accompaniment , in which , however , ingenious details often tend to drown the original melody . Of his quartets , some have become highly popular with singing societies and form part of their _repertoire_ . The crowning point of Liszt 's compositions is to be found in sacred music , for instance in his mass known as the `` Grauer Messe , '' composed for the dedication of the Cathedral at Grau , in Hungary ; the Crowning mass , and his two oratorios , `` Die heilige Elisabeth '' and `` Christus . '' But even they caused a decided difference of opinion ; and if some knew no bounds for their enthusiasm , others could not find an end for their condemnation . Such works should not be treated too lightly , and a thorough and impartial examination will show that a place of honor must be accorded to them in the history of music . Since the `` Heilige Elisabeth '' has been produced in several cities of Germany it has been viewed more favorably and disarmed many of the opponents . But Liszt also belongs to the literary fraternity , and his works , published by Breitkopf & Hartel , contain some of the best ever written in regard to art and artists . They were mostly written in elegant French originally , and relate to the social position of artists and the state of the art of music in certain cities or even an entire country . A part of his works is devoted to the music of gypsies , and to a true and honest history of the life of his friend Chopin . Then again we find him preparing the path to the hearts of the public for Berlioz , Schumann , Wagner , Robert Franz , and Meyerbeer . Liszt has certainly collected enormous sums of money in his successful career , but as fast as he reaps his earnings he gives them to those needing assistance , and it is almost entirely to him that the inhabitants of Bonn , on the Rhine , owe their beautiful Beethoven Monument , and during the last years Liszt has been untiring in giving concerts and collecting money for a monument for the greatest of the great , Johann Sebastian Bach . Liszt is an artist in every sense of the word , and we should all wish that he will remain among us for many years more . * * * * * M. GARNIER 'S NEW METHODS OF PHOTOENGRAVING . By MAJOR J. WATERHOUSE , B.SC . In one of the upper rooms of the Electrical Exhibition in Paris , there is an interesting collection of plates and proofs produced by various methods of photo-engraving , invented by M. Henri Garnier , whose name is so well known in connection with these processes , and whose beautiful plate of the Chateau of Maintenon gained for him a gold medal at the Paris International Exhibition of 1867 . Some interesting details of these processes are given in an extract from a report on them by M. Davanne to the Socit d'Encouragement pour l'Industrie Nationale , read at its sitting on the 22d July last , of which copies are distributed gratis in the exhibition . The report opens with a brief allusion to M. Garnier 's continuous labors in permanent photographic printing , commencing with the ingenious mercury process worked out in conjunction with M. Salmon , and published in 1855 , in which a print which has been exposed to the fumes of iodine is laid down on a plate of polished brass , so that the iodine , absorbed by the printed lines , slightly attacks the brass ; mercury being then rubbed over the brass , forms an amalgam with the iodized parts . If a roller charged with printing ink be now passed over the plate , the ink will only be taken on the pure brass , and not on the iodized parts . The plate is next bitten with acid nitrate of silver , and may then be treated in various ways , so as to form either a printing-block or an engraved plate . The process never came to any practical use , but led M. Garnier to the invention of the very valuable and largely used process of acierage or steel-facing , by which the surface of engraved copper-plates is so hardened and protected by a thin coating of iron that instead of only a few hundred impressions , many thousands can be printed from a plate without the slightest deterioration . The next invention noticed is the citrate of iron process of M.M . Salmon and Garnier , in which a paper , coated with a sirupy solution of citrate of iron , is exposed to light under a positive print for a period varying from eight to ten minutes in the sun , to half or three-quarters of an hour in the shade . In the parts where the light has acted the paper becomes non-hygroscopic in proportion to the intensity of the action of the light upon it . The paper being left for a short time to absorb moisture from the air , is dusted over with lamp-black , which , attaching itself to the unexposed parts , reproduces an exact image of the original drawing . M. Garnier has since greatly modified this method of obtaining an image by dusting , and applied it to various processes of photo-engraving . The report then proceeds to give the following details of a process of photo-engraving , which was exhibited before the society by M. Garnier in March last : PHOTOGRAVURE . In photo-engraving a distinction must always be made between the reproduction of drawings in line and those with shaded tints . A. -- _Photo-engraving of Line-work._ -- A plate of copper is prepared by covering it , either by flowing or with a roller , with a very thin coating of a solution of : Sugar 2 grammes . Bichromate of ammonia 1 gramme . Water 14 grammes . This coating is equalized and quickly dried by means of an arrangement which keeps it in rotation over a warm plate . As soon as the plate is dry , a positive clich of the drawing to be reproduced is laid upon it , and the whole exposed to the sun for a minute , or to the electric light for three minutes . The reaction produced is the same as with the citrate of iron , but much quicker ; the exposed parts are no longer hygroscopic , but in the parts protected by 