He had told his people that he was God 's chief servant ; it was even said that he had once , in the plenitude of his power , cried that he was God Himself ... . His figure remained to this very day dominating Polchester , vast in stature , black-bearded , rejoicing in his physical strength . He could kill , they used to say , an ox with his fist ... . The `` Gloria '' rang triumphantly up into the shadows of the nave . Brandon moved once more across to the Lectern . He read of the casting of the money-changers out of the Temple . His voice quivered with pride and exultation so that Cobbett , who had acquired , after many years ' practice , the gift of sleeping during the Lessons and Sermon with his eyes open , woke up with a start and wondered what was the matter . Brandon 's mood , when he was back in his own drawing-room , did not leave him ; it was rather intensified by the cosiness and security of his home . Lying back in his large arm-chair in front of the fire , his long legs stretched out before him , he could hear the rain beating on the window- panes and beyond that the murmur of the organ ( Brockett , the organist , was practising , as he often did after Evensong ) . The drawing-room was a long narrow one with many windows ; it was furnished in excellent taste . The carpet and the curtains and the dark blue coverings to the chairs were all a little faded , but this only gave them an additional dignity and repose . There were two large portraits of himself and Mrs. Brandon painted at the time of their marriage , some low white book-shelves , a large copy of `` Christ in the Temple '' -- plenty of space , flowers , light . Mrs. Brandon was , at this time , a woman of forty-two , but she looked very much less than that . She was slight , dark , pale , quite undistinguished . She had large grey eyes that looked on to the ground when you spoke to her . She was considered a very shy woman , negative in every way . She agreed with everything that was said to her and seemed to have no opinions of her own . She was simply `` the wife of the Archdeacon . '' Mrs. Combermere considered her a `` poor little fool . '' She had no real friends in Polchester , and it made little difference to any gathering whether she were there or not . She had been only once known to lose her temper in public -- once in the market-place she had seen a farmer beat his horse over the eyes . She had actually gone up to him and struck him . Afterwards she had said that `` she did not like to see animals ill-treated . '' The Archdeacon had apologised for her , and no more had been said about it . The farmer had borne her no grudge . She sat now at the little tea-table , her eyes screwed up over the serious question of giving the Archdeacon his tea exactly as he wanted it . Her whole mind was apparently engaged on this problem , and the Archdeacon did not care to-day that she did not answer his questions and support his comments because he was very , very happy , the whole of his being thrilling with security and success and innocent pride . Joan Brandon came in . In appearance she was , as Mrs. Sampson said , '' insignificant . '' You would not look at her twice any more than you would have looked at her mother twice . Her figure was slight and her legs ( she was wearing long skirts this year for the first time ) too long . Her hair was dark brown and her eyes dark brown . She had nice rosy cheeks , but they were inclined to freckle . She smiled a good deal and laughed , when in company , more noisily than was proper . `` A bit of a tomboy , I 'm afraid , '' was what one used to hear about her . But she was not really a tomboy ; she moved quietly , and her own bedroom was always neat and tidy . She had very little pocket-money and only seldom new clothes , not because the Archdeacon was mean , but because Joan was so often forgotten and left out of the scheme of things . It was surprising that the only girl in the house should be so often forgotten , but the Archdeacon did not care for girls , and Mrs. Brandon did not appear to think very often of any one except the Archdeacon . Falk , Joan 's brother , now at Oxford , when he was at home had other things to do than consider Joan . She had gone , ever since she was twelve , to the Polchester High School for Girls , and there she was popular , and might have made many friends , had it not been that she could not invite her companions to her home . Her father did not like `` noise in the house . '' She had been Captain of the Hockey team ; the small girls in the school had all adored her . She had left the place six months ago and had come home to `` help her mother . '' She had had , in honest fact , six months ' loneliness , although no one knew that except herself . Her mother had not wanted her help . There had been nothing for her to do , and she had felt herself too young to venture into the company of older girls in the town . She had been rather `` blue '' and had looked back on Seafield House , the High School , with longing , and then suddenly , one morning , for no very clear reason she had taken a new view of life . Everything seemed delightful and even thrilling , commonplace things that she had known all her days , the High Street , keeping her rooms tidy , spending or saving the minute monthly allowance , the Cathedral , the river . She was all in a moment aware that something very delightful would shortly occur . What it was she did not know , and she laughed at herself for imagining that anything extraordinary could ever happen to any one so commonplace as herself , but there the strange feeling was and it would not go away . To-day , as always when her father was there , she came in very quietly , sat down near her mother , saw that she made no sort of interruption to the Archdeacon 's flow of conversation . She found that he was in a good humour to-day , and she was glad of that because it would please her mother . She herself had a great interest in all that he said . She thought him a most wonderful man , and secretly was swollen with pride that she was his daughter . It did not hurt her at all that he never took any notice of her . Why should he ? Nor did she ever feel jealous of Falk , her father's favourite . That seemed to her quite natural . She had the idea , now most thoroughly exploded but then universally held in Polchester , that women were greatly inferior to men . She did not read the more advanced novels written by Mme . Sarah Grand and Mrs. Lynn Linton . I am ashamed to say that her favourite authors were Miss Alcott and Miss Charlotte Mary Yonge . Moreover , she herself admired Falk extremely . He seemed to her a hero and always right in everything that he did . Her father continued to talk , and behind the reverberation of his deep voice the roll of the organ like an approving echo could faintly be heard . `` There was a moment when I thought Foster was going to interfere . I've been against the garden-roller from the first -- they 've got one and what do they want another for ? And , anyway , he thinks I meddle with the School's affairs too much . Who wants to meddle with the School 's affairs ? I 'm sure they 're nothing but a nuisance , but some one 's got to prevent the place from going to wrack and ruin , and if they all leave it to me I ca n't very well refuse it , can I ? Hey ? '' `` No , dear . '' `` You see what I mean ? '' `` Yes , dear . '' `` Well , then -- '' ( As though Mrs. Brandon had just been overcome in an argument in which she 'd shown the greatest obstinacy . ) `` There you are . It would be false modesty to deny that I 've got the Chapter more or less in my pocket And why should n't I have ? Has any one worked harder for this place and the Cathedral than I have ? '' `` No , dear . '' `` Well , then ... . There 's this new fellow Ronder coming to-day . Do n't know much about him , but he wo n't give much trouble , I expect -- trouble in the way of delaying things , I mean . What we want is work done expeditiously . I 've just about got that Chapter moving at last . Ten years ' hard work . Deserve a V.C . or something . Hey ? '' `` Yes , dear , I 'm sure you do . '' The Archdeacon gave one of his well-known roars of laughter -- a laugh famous throughout the county , a laugh described by his admirers as '' Homeric , '' by his enemies as `` ear-splitting . '' There was , however , enemies or no enemies , something sympathetic in that laugh , something boyish and simple and honest . He suddenly pulled himself up , bringing his long legs close against his broad chest . `` No letter from Falk to-day , was there ? '' `` No , dear . '' `` Humph . That 's three weeks we have n't heard . Hope there 's nothing wrong . '' `` What could there be wrong , dear ? '' `` Nothing , of course ... . Well , Joan , and what have you been doing with yourself all day ? '' It was only in his most happy and resplendent moods that the Archdeacon held jocular conversations with his daughter . These conversations had been , in the past , moments of agony and terror to her , but since that morning when she had suddenly woken to a realisation of the marvellous possibilities in life her terror had left her . There were other people in the word besides her father ... . Nevertheless , a little , her agitation was still with her . She looked up at him , smiling . `` Oh , I do n't know , father ... . I went to the Library this morning to change the books for mother -- '' '' Novels , I suppose . No one ever reads anything but trash nowadays . '' `` They had n't anything that mother put down . They never have . Miss Milton sits on the new novels and keeps them for Mrs. Sampson and Mrs . Combermere . '' `` Sits on them ? '' `` Yes -- really sits on them . I saw her take one from under her skirt the other day when Mrs. Sampson asked for it . It was one that mother has wanted a long time . '' The Archdeacon was angry . `` I never heard anything so scandalous . I 'll just see to that . What 's the use of being on the Library Committee if that kind of thing happens ? That woman shall go . '' `` Oh no ! father ! ... '' `` Of course she shall go . I never heard anything so dishonest in my life ! ... '' Joan remembered that little conversation until the end of her life . And with reason . The door was flung open . Some one came hurriedly in , then stopped , with a sudden arrested impulse , looking at them . It was Falk . Falk was a very good-looking man -- fair hair , light blue eyes like his father 's , slim and straight and quite obviously fearless . It was that quality of courage that struck every one who saw him ; it was not only that he feared , it seemed , no one and nothing , but that he went a step further than that , spending his life in defying every one and everything , as a practised dueller might challenge every one he met in order to keep his play in practice . `` I do n't like young Brandon , '' Mrs. Sampson said . `` He snorts contempt at you ... . '' He was only twenty-one , a contemptuous age . He looked as though he had been living in that house for weeks , although , as a fact , he had just driven up , after a long and tiresome journey , in an ancient cab through the pouring rain . The Archdeacon gazed at his son in a bewildered , confused amaze , as though he , a convinced sceptic , were suddenly confronted , in broad daylight , with an undoubted ghost . `` What 's the matter ? '' he said at last . `` Why are you here ? '' `` I 've been sent down , '' said Falk . It was characteristic of the relationship in that family that , at that statement , Mrs. Brandon and Joan did not look at Falk but at the Archdeacon . `` Sent down ! '' `` Yes , for ragging ! They wanted to do it last term . '' `` Sent down ! '' The Archdeacon shot to his feet ; his voice suddenly lifted into a cry . `` And you have the impertinence to come here and tell me ! You walk in as though nothing had happened ! You walk in ! ... '' `` You 're angry , '' said Falk , smiling . `` Of course I knew you would be . You might hear me out first . But I 'll come along when I 've unpacked and you're a bit cooler . I wanted some tea , but I suppose that will have to wait . You just listen , father , and you 'll find it is n't so bad . Oxford 's a rotten place for any one who wants to be on his own , and , anyway , you wo n't have to pay my bills any more . '' Falk turned and went . The Archdeacon , as he stood there , felt a dim mysterious pain as though an adversary whom he completely despised had found suddenly with his weapon a joint in his armour . Chapter II Ronders The train that brought Falk Brandon back to Polchester brought also the Ronders -- Frederick Ronder , newly Canon of Polchester , and his aunt , Miss Alice Ronder . About them the station gathered in a black cloud , dirty , obscure , lit by flashes of light and flame , shaken with screams , rumblings , the crashing of carriage against carriage , the rattle of cab- wheels on the cobbles outside . To-day also there was the hiss and scatter of the rain upon the glass roof . The Ronders stood , not bewildered , for that they never were , but thinking what would be best . The new Canon was a round man , round-shouldered , round-faced , round-stomached , round legged . A fair height , he was not ludicrous , but it seemed that if you laid him down he would roll naturally , still smiling , to the farthest end of the station . He wore large , very round spectacles . His black clerical coat and trousers and hat were scrupulously clean and smartly cut . He was not a dandy , but he was not shabby . He smiled a great deal , not nervously as curates are supposed to smile , not effusively , but simply with geniality . His aunt was a contrast , thin , straight , stiff white collar , little black bow-tie , coat like a man 's , skirt with no nonsense about it . No nonsense about her anywhere . She was not unamiable , perhaps , but business came first . `` Well , what do we do ? '' he asked . `` We collect our bags and find the cab , '' she answered briskly . They found their bags , and there were a great many of them ; Miss Ronder , having seen that they were all there and that there was no nonsense about the porter , moved off to the barrier followed by her nephew . As they came into the station square , 