Produced by David Widger MYTHS AND LEGENDS OF OUR OWN LAND By Charles M. Skinner CONTENTS : THE HUDSON AND ITS HILLS Rip Van Winkle Catskill Gnomes The Catskill Witch The Revenge of Shandaken Condemned to the Noose Big Indian The Baker 's Dozen The Devil 's Dance-Chamber The Culprit Fay Pokepsie Dunderberg Anthony 's Nose Moodua Creek A Trapper 's Ghastly Vengeance The Vanderdecken of Tappan Zee The Galloping Hessian Storm Ship on the Hudson Why Spuyten Duyvil is so Named The Ramapo Salamander Chief Croton The Retreat from Mahopac Niagara The Deformed of Zoar Horseheads Kayuta and Waneta The Drop Star The Prophet of Palmyra A Villain 's Cremation The Monster Mosquito The Green Picture The Nuns of Carthage The Skull in the Wall The Haunted Mill Old Indian Face The Division of the Saranacs An Event in Indian Park The Indian Plume Birth of the Water-Lily Rogers 's Slide The Falls at Cohoes Francis Woolcott 's Night-Riders Polly 's Lover Crosby , the Patriot Spy The Lost Grave of Paine The Rising of Gouverneur Morris THE ISLE OF MANHATTOES AND NEARBY Dolph Heyliger The Knell at the Wedding Roistering Dirck Van Dara The Party from Gibbet Island Miss Britton 's Poker The Devil 's Stepping-Stones The Springs of Blood and Water The Crumbling Silver The Cortelyou Elopement Van Wempel 's Goose The Weary Watcher The Rival Fiddlers Wyandank Mark of the Spirit Hand The First Liberal Church ON AND NEAR THE DELAWARE The Phantom Dragoon Delaware Water Gap The Phantom Drummer The Missing Soldier of Valley Forge The Last Shot at Germantown A Blow in the Dark The Tory 's Conversion Lord Percy 's Dream Saved by the Bible Parricide of the Wissahickon The Blacksmith at Brandywine Father and Son The Envy of Manitou The Last Revel in Printz Hall The Two Rings Flame Scalps of the Chartiers The Consecration of Washington Marion TALES OF PURITAN LAND Evangeline The Snoring of Swunksus The Lewiston Hermit The Dead Ship of Harpswell The Schoolmaster had not reached Orrington Jack Welch 's Death Light Mogg Megone The Lady Ursula Father Moody 's Black Veil The Home of Thunder The Partridge Witch The Marriage of Mount Katahdin The Moose of Mount Kineo The Owl Tree A Chestnut Log The Watcher on White Island Chocorua Passaconaway 's Ride to Heaven The Ball Game by the Saco The White Mountains The Vision on Mount Adams The Great Carbuncle Skinner 's Cave Yet they call it Lover 's Leap Salem and other Witchcraft The Gloucester Leaguers Satan and his Burial-Place Peter Rugg , the Missing Man The Loss of Weetamoo The Fatal Forget-me-not The Old Mill at Somerville Edward Randolph 's Portrait Lady Eleanore 's Mantle Howe 's Masquerade Old Esther Dudley The Loss of Jacob Hurd The Hobomak Berkshire Tories The Revenge of Josiah Breeze The May-Pole of Merrymount The Devil and Tom Walker The Gray Champion The Forest Smithy Wahconah Falls Knocking at the Tomb The White Deer of Onota Wizard 's Glen Balanced Rock Shonkeek-Moonkeek The Salem Alchemist Eliza Wharton Sale of the Southwicks The Courtship of Myles Standish Mother Crewe Aunt Rachel 's Curse Nix 's Mate The Wild Man of Cape Cod Newbury 's Old Elm Samuel Sewall 's Prophecy The Shrieking Woman Agnes Surriage Skipper Ireson 's Ride Heartbreak Hill Harry Main : The Treasure and the Cats The Wessaguscus Hanging The Unknown Champion Goody Cole General Moulton and the Devil The Skeleton in Armor Martha 's Vineyard and Nantucket Love and Treason The Headless Skeleton of Swamptown The Crow and Cat of Hopkins Hill The Old Stone Mill Origin of a Name Micah Rood Apples A Dinner and its Consequences The New Haven Storm Ship The Windham Frogs The Lamb of Sacrifice Moodus Noises Haddam Enchantments Block Island and the Palatine The Buccaneer Robert Lockwood 's Fate Love and Rum LIGHTS AND SHADOWS OF THE SOUTH The Swim at Indian Head The Moaning Sisters A Ride for a Bride Spooks of the Hiawassee Lake of the Dismal Swamp The Barge of Defeat Natural Bridge The Silence Broken Siren of the French Broad The Hunter of Calawassee Revenge of the Accabee Toccoa Falls Two Lives for One A Ghostly Avenger The Wraith Ringer of Atlanta The Swallowing Earthquake The Last Stand of the Biloxi The Sacred Fire of Natchez Pass Christian The Under Land THE CENTRAL STATES AND GREAT LAKES An Averted Peril The Obstinacy of Saint Clair The Hundredth Skull The Crime of Black Swamp The House Accursed Marquette 's Man-Eater Michel de Coucy 's Troubles Wallen 's Ridge The Sky Walker of Huron The Coffin of Snakes Mackinack Lake Superior Water Gods The Witch of Pictured Rocks The Origin of White Fish The Spirit of Cloudy The Sun Fire at Sault Sainte Marie The Snake God of Belle Isle Were-Wolves of Detroit The Escape of Francois Navarre The Old Lodger The Nain Rouge Two Revenges Hiawatha The Indian Messiah The Vision of Rescue Devil 's Lake The Keusca Elopement Pipestone The Virgins ' Feast Falls of St. Anthony Flying Shadow and Track Maker Saved by a Lightning-Stroke The Killing of Cloudy Sky Providence Hole The Scare Cure Twelfth Night at Cahokia The Spell of Creve Coeur Lake How the Crime was Revealed Banshee of the Bad Lands Standing Rock The Salt Witch ALONG THE ROCKY RANGE Over the Divide The Phantom Train of Marshall Pass The River of Lost Souls Riders of the Desert The Division of Two Tribes Besieged by Starvation A Yellowstone Tragedy The Broad House The Death Waltz The Flood at Santa Fe Goddess of Salt The Coming of the Navajos The Ark on Superstition Mountains The Pale Faced Lightning The Weird Sentinel at Squaw Peak Sacrifice of the Toltecs Ta-Vwots Conquers the Sun The Comanche Rider Horned Toad and Giants The Spider Tower The Lost Trail A Battle in the Air ON THE PACIFIC SLOPE The Voyager of the Whulge Tamanous of Tacoma The Devil and the Dalles Cascades of the Columbia The Death of Umatilla Hunger Valley The Wrath of Manitou The Spook of Misery Hill The Queen of Death Valley Bridal Veil Fall The Governor 's Right Eye The Prisoner in American Shaft AS TO BURIED TREASURE Kidd 's Treasure Other Buried Wealth STORIED WATERS , CLIFFS AND MOUNTAINS PREFACE It is unthinkingly said and often , that America is not old enough to have developed a legendary era , for such an era grows backward as a nation grows forward . No little of the charm of European travel is ascribed to the glamour that history and fable have flung around old churches , castles , and the favored haunts of tourists , and the Rhine and Hudson are frequently compared , to the prejudice of the latter , not because its scenery lacks in loveliness or grandeur , but that its beauty has not been humanized by love of chivalry or faerie , as that of the older stream has been . Yet the record of our country 's progress is of deep import , and as time goes on the figures seen against the morning twilight of our history will rise to more commanding stature , and the mists of legend will invest them with a softness or glory that shall make reverence for them spontaneous and deep . Washington hurling the stone across the Potomac may live as the Siegfried of some Western saga , and Franklin invoking the lightnings may be the Loki of our mythology . The bibliography of American legends is slight , and these tales have been gathered from sources the most diverse : records , histories , newspapers , magazines , oral narrative -- in every case reconstructed . The pursuit of them has been so long that a claim may be set forth for some measure of completeness . But , whatever the episodes of our four historic centuries may furnish to the poet , painter , dramatist , or legend-building idealist of the future , it is certain that we are not devoid of myth and folk-lore . Some characters , prosaic enough , perhaps , in daily life , have impinged so lightly on society before and after perpetrating their one or two great deeds , that they have already become shadowy and their achievements have acquired a color of the supernatural . It is where myth and history combine that legend is most interesting and appeals to our fancy or our sympathy most strongly ; and it is not too early for us to begin the collation of those quaint happenings and those spoken reports that gain in picturesqueness with each transmission . An attempt has been made in this instance to assemble only legends , for , doubtful as some historians profess to find them , certain occurrences , like the story of Captain Smith and Pocahontas , and the ride of General Putnam down Breakneck Stairs , are taught as history ; while as to folk-lore , that of the Indian tribes and of the Southern negro is too copious to be recounted in this work . It will be noted that traditions do not thrive in brick and brownstone , and that the stories once rife in the colonial cities have almost as effectually disappeared as the architectural landmarks of last century . The field entered by the writer is not untrodden . Hawthorne and Irving have made paths across it , and it is hoped that others may deem its farther exploration worthy of their efforts . THE HUDSON AND ITS HILLS RIP VAN WINKLE The story of Rip Van Winkle , told by Irving , dramatized by Boucicault , acted by Jefferson , pictured by Darley , set to music by Bristow , is the best known of American legends . Rip was a real personage , and the Van Winkles are a considerable family at this day . An idle , good-natured , happy-go-lucky fellow , he lived , presumably , in the village of Catskill , and began his long sleep in 1769 . His wife was a shrew , and to escape her abuse Rip often took his dog and gun and roamed away to the Catskills , nine miles westward , where he lounged or hunted , as the humor seized him . It was on a September evening , during a jaunt on South Mountain , that he met a stubby , silent man , of goodly girth , his round head topped with a steeple hat , the skirts of his belted coat and flaps of his petticoat trousers meeting at the tops of heavy boots , and the face -- ugh ! -- green and ghastly , with unmoving eyes that glimmered in the twilight like phosphorus . The dwarf carried a keg , and on receiving an intimation , in a sign , that he would like Rip to relieve him of it , that cheerful vagabond shouldered it and marched on up the mountain . At nightfall they emerged on a little plateau where a score of men in the garb of long ago , with faces like that of Rip 's guide , and equally still and speechless , were playing bowls with great solemnity , the balls sometimes rolling over the plateau 's edge and rumbling down the rocks with a boom like thunder . A cloaked and snowy-bearded figure , watching aloof , turned like the others , and gazed uncomfortably at the visitor who now came blundering in among them . Rip was at first for making off , but the sinister glare in the circle of eyes took the run out of his legs , and he was not displeased when they signed to him to tap the keg and join in a draught of the ripest schnapps that ever he had tasted , -- and he knew the flavor of every brand in Catskill . While these strange men grew no more genial with passing of the flagons , Rip was pervaded by a satisfying glow ; then , overcome by sleepiness and resting his head on a stone , he stretched his tired legs out and fell to dreaming . Morning . Sunlight and leaf shadow were dappled over the earth when he awoke , and rising stiffly from his bed , with compunctions in his bones , he reached for his gun . The already venerable implement was so far gone with rot and rust that it fell to pieces in his hand , and looking down at the fragments of it , he saw that his clothes were dropping from his body in rags and mould , while a white beard flowed over his breast . Puzzled and alarmed , shaking his head ruefully as he recalled the carouse of the silent , he hobbled down the mountain as fast as he might for the grip of the rheumatism on his knees and elbows , and entered his native village . What ! Was this Catskill ? Was this the place that he left yesterday ? Had all these houses sprung up overnight , and these streets been pushed across the meadows in a day ? The people , too : where were his friends ? The children who had romped with him , the rotund topers whom he had left cooling their hot noses in pewter pots at the tavern door , the dogs that used to bark a welcome , recognizing in him a kindred spirit of vagrancy : where were they ? And his wife , whose athletic arm and agile tongue had half disposed him to linger in the mountains how happened it that she was not awaiting him at the gate ? But gate there was none in the familiar place : an unfenced yard of weeds and ruined foundation wall were there . Rip 's home was gone . The idlers jeered at his bent , lean form , his snarl of beard and hair , his disreputable dress , his look of grieved astonishment . He stopped , instinctively , at the tavern , for he knew that place in spite of its new sign : an officer in blue regimentals and a cocked hat replacing the crimson George III . of his recollection , and labelled `` General Washington . '' There was a quick gathering of ne'er-do-weels , of tavern-haunters and gaping 'prentices , about him , and though their faces were strange and their manners rude , he made bold to ask if they knew such and such of his friends . `` Nick Vedder ? He 's dead and gone these eighteen years . '' `` Brom Dutcher ? He joined the army and was killed at Stony Point . '' `` Van Brummel ? He , too , went to the war , and is in Congress now . '' `` And Rip Van Winkle ? '' `` Yes , he 's here . That 's him yonder . '' And to Rip 's utter confusion he saw before him a counterpart of himself , as young , lazy , ragged , and easy-natured as he remembered himself to be , yesterday -- or , was it yesterday ? `` That 's young Rip , '' continued his informer . `` His father was Rip Van Winkle , too , but he went to the mountains twenty years ago and never came back . He probably fell over a cliff , or was carried off by Indians , or eaten by bears . '' Twenty years ago ! Truly , it was so . Rip had slept for twenty years without awaking . He had left a peaceful colonial village ; he returned to a bustling republican town . How he eventually found , among the oldest inhabitants , some who admitted that they knew him ; how he found a comfortable home with his married daughter and the son who took after him so kindly ; how he recovered from the effect of the tidings that his wife had died of apoplexy , in a quarrel ; how he resumed his seat at the tavern tap and smoked long pipes and told long yarns for the rest of his days , were matters of record up to the beginning of this century . And a strange story Rip had to tell , for he had served as cup-bearer to the dead crew of the Half Moon . He had quaffed a cup of Hollands with no other than Henry Hudson himself . Some say that Hudson 's spirit has made its home amid these hills , that it may look into the lovely valley that he discovered ; but others hold that every twenty years he and his men assemble for a revel in the mountains that so charmed them when first seen swelling against the western heavens , and the liquor they drink on this night has the bane of throwing any mortal who lips it into a slumber whence nothing can arouse him until the day dawns when the crew shall meet again . As you climb the east front of the mountains by the old carriage road , you pass , half-way up the height , the stone that Rip Van Winkle slept on , and may see that it is slightly hollowed by his form . The ghostly revellers are due in the Catskills in 1909 , and let all tourists who are among the mountains in September of that year beware of accepting liquor from strangers . CATSKILL GNOMES Behind the New Grand Hotel , in the Catskills , is an amphitheatre of mountain that is held to be the place of which the Mohicans spoke when they told of people there who worked in metals , and had bushy beards and eyes like pigs . 