Produced by Jonathan Ingram , Martin Pettit and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team THE HISTORY OF THE GREAT IRISH FAMINE OF 1847 , WITH NOTICES OF EARLIER IRISH FAMINES . BY THE REV . JOHN O'ROURKE , P.P. , M.R.I.A . THIRD EDITION . Dublin : JAMES DUFFY AND CO. , LTD. , 15 WELLINGTON QUAY . 1902 . [ _The right of translation and reproduction is reserved._ ] TO MY FELLOW COUNTRYMEN THIS NARRATIVE OF ONE OF THE MOST TERRIBLE EPISODES IN THE CHEQUERED HISTORY OF OUR NATIVE LAND , IS RESPECTFULLY AND AFFECTIONATELY DEDICATED . PREFACE . The Author of this volume has , for a considerable time , been of opinion , that the leading facts of the Great Irish Famine of 1847 ought to be put together without unnecessary delay . Several reasons occurred to him why such a work should be done : the magnitude of the Famine itself ; the peculiarity of its immediate cause ; its influence on the destiny of the Irish Race . That there should be no unnecessary delay in performing the task was sufficiently proved , he thought , by the fact , that testimony of the most valuable kind , namely , contemporary testimony , was silently but rapidly passing away with the generation that had witnessed the Scourge . Having made up his mind to undertake such a work , the Author 's first preparation for it was , to send query sheets to such persons as were supposed to be in possession of information on the subject . And he has here to express his gratitude and thanks to his numerous correspondents , for the kindness and promptness with which his queries were answered . He can not recall even one case in which this was not done . But there is a dark side to the picture too . In looking over the query sheets now , it is sad to find how many of those whose signatures they bear have already passed from amongst us . Other materials of great importance lay scattered over the Public Journals of the period ; were buried and stowed away in Parliamentary Blue Books , and Parliamentary debates ; -- were to be sought for in pamphlets , in periodicals , and more especially in the Reports of the various Societies and Associations , which were appointed for dispensing the alms given with such free hand , to aid in saving the lives of the famishing people . Those Records will be found quoted and referred to in the course of the work . Amongst them , it is but just to acknowledge , how much the Author owes to the Report of the Census Commissioners for 1851 ; to the `` Transactions '' of the Society of Friends ; and to the _Irish Crisis_ , by Sir Charles E. Trevelyan , Bart . ; which originally appeared as an article in the _Edinburgh Review_ for January , 1848 , but was reprinted in a small volume of two hundred pages . Although far from agreeing with many of Sir Charles 's conclusions ( he was Secretary to the Treasury during the Famine ) , still the Author cheerfully acknowledges , that the statistical information in the _Irish Crisis_ is very valuable to a student of the history of the Famine period . It was to be expected , that the alarm about the Potato Blight and the Famine would be first raised through the public Press . This was done by letters from various localities , and by Special Reporters and Commissioners , who travelled through the country to examine the state of the people , as well as that of the potato crop . There was a Commissioner from the London _Times_ in Ireland at this period . His letters written to that Journal were afterwards collected , and they made an octavo volume of nearly eight hundred pages . The English people , and many in Ireland , long adhered to the opinion , that there was much exaggeration in the Irish Newspapers regarding both the Blight and the Famine ; but subsequent investigation showed , that there was very little , if any , exaggeration ; nay , that the real facts were often understated . As to the Famine , several of the gentlemen sent by the Charitable Societies to make Reports , wrote back , that there was no exaggeration whatever , and , for a very sufficient reason , namely , that , in their opinion , it was impossible to exaggerate the dreadful condition in which they found the people . Another mode of acquiring information adopted by the Author was , to visit those parts of the country in which the Famine had raged with the greatest severity . On such occasions he not only had the advantage of examining the localities , but of conversing with persons whose knowledge of that awful Calamity made them valuable and interesting guides . As to the rest , it is left to the kindness of the Reader . ST. MARY 'S , MAYNOOTH , _1st December , 1874._ CONTENTS . CHAPTER I . The Potato -- Its introduction into Europe -- Sir Walter Raleigh -- The Potato of Virginia -- The Battata , or sweet Potato -- Sir John Hawkins -- Sir Francis Drake -- Raleigh 's numerous exploring expeditions -- Story of his distributing Potatoes on the Irish coast on his way from Virginia groundless -- Sir Joseph Banks -- His history of the introduction of the Potato -- Thomas Heriot -- His description of the Opanawk a correct description of the Potato -- That root in Europe before Raleigh 's time -- Raleigh an `` Undertaker '' -- The Grants made to him -- The Famine after the War with the Desmonds -- Introduction of the Potato into Ireland -- Did not come rapidly into cultivation -- Food of the poorest -- Grazing -- Graziers -- Destruction of Irish Manufactures -- Causes of the increasing culture of the Potato -- Improvement of Agriculture -- Rotation of Crops -- Primate Boulter 's charity -- Buys Corn in the South to sell it cheaply in the North -- Years of scarcity from 1720 to 1740 -- The Famine of 1740-41 -- The Great Frost -- No combined effort to meet this Famine -- Vast number of Deaths -- The Obelisk at Castletown ( _Note_ ) -- Price of Wheat -- Bread Riots -- Gangs of Robbers -- '' The Kellymount Gang '' -- Severe punishment -- Shooting down Food-rioters -- The Lord Lieutenant 's Address to Parliament -- Bill `` for the more effectual securing the payments of rents and preventing the frauds of tenants '' -- This Bill the basis of legislation on the Land Question up to 1870 -- Land thrown into Grazing -- State of the Catholics -- Renewal of the Penal Statutes -- Fever and bloody flux -- Deaths -- State of Prisoners -- Galway Physicians refuse to attend Patients -- The Races of Galway changed to Tuam on account of the Fever in Galway -- Balls and Plays ! -- Rt . Rev . Dr. Berkeley 's account of the Famine -- The `` Groans of Ireland '' -- Ireland a land of Famine -- Dublin Bay -- The Coast -- The Wicklow Hills -- Killiney -- Obelisk Hill -- What the Obelisk was built for -- The Potato more cultivated than ever after 1741 -- Agricultural literature of the time -- Apathy of the Gentry denounced -- Comparative yield of Potatoes a hundred years ago and at present -- Arthur Young on the Potato -- Great increase of its culture in twenty years -- The disease called `` curl '' in the Potato ( _Note_ ) -- Failure of the Potato in 1821 -- Consequent Famine in 1822 -- Government grants -- Charitable collections -- High price of Potatoes -- Skibbereen in 1822 -- Half of the superficies of the Island visited by this Famine -- Strange apathy of Statesmen and Landowners with regard to the ever-increasing culture of the Potato -- Supposed conquest of Ireland -- Ireland kept poor lest she should rebel -- The English colony always regarded as the Irish nation -- The natives ignored -- They lived in the bogs and mountains , and cultivated the Potato , the only food that would grow in such places -- No recorded Potato blight before 1729 -- The probable reason -- Poverty of the English colony -- Jealousy of England of its progress and prosperity -- Commercial jealousy -- Destruction of the Woollen manufacture -- Its immediate effect -- William the Third's Declaration -- Absenteeism -- Mr. M'Culloch 's arguments ( Note A . ) -- Apparently low rents -- Not really so -- No capital -- Little skill -- No good Agricultural Implements -- Swift 's opinion -- Arthur Young 's opinion -- Acts of Parliament -- The Catholics permitted to be loyal -- Act for reclaiming Bogs -- Pension to Apostate Priests increased -- Catholic Petition in 1792 -- The Relief Act of 1793 -- Population of Ireland at this time -- the Forty-shilling Freeholders -- Why they were created -- Why they were abolished -- the cry of over-population , 1 CHAPTER II . The Potato Blight of 1845 -- Its appearance in England -- In Ireland -- Weather -- Scotland -- Names given to the Blight -- First appearance of the Blight in Ireland -- Accounts of its progress -- The Royal Agricultural Improvement Society of Ireland -- Its action -- The Dublin Corporation -- O'Connell -- His plan for meeting the Crisis -- Deputation to the Lord Lieutenant -- How it was received -- Lord Heytesbury 's Reply -- It displeases the Government -- The _Times_' Commissioner -- His suggestions -- Mr. Gregory 's Letter -- Mr. Crichton 's -- Sir James Murray on the Blight -- Action of the Clergy -- the Mansion House Committee -- Resolutions -- Analysis of five hundred letters on the Blight -- Partial cessation of the Rot caused by the Blight -- Report of Professors Lindley and Playfair -- Estimated loss -- Query Sheets sent out -- Corporation Address to the Queen -- Her Reply -- Address of the London Corporation asking for Free Trade -- The Potato Blight made a party question -- Dean Hoare 's Letter -- Failure of remedies , 48 CHAPTER III . Lord Heytesbury and Sir Robert Peel -- The Potatoes of last year ! -- Is there a stock of them ? -- Sir R. Peel and Free Trade -- Strength of his Cabinet -- Mr. Cobden proposes a Committee of Inquiry -- His speech -- Its effect -- Committee refused -- D'Israeli 's attack on Sir R. Peel ( _Note_ ) -- Sir Robert puts forward the Potato Blight as the cause for repealing the Corn Laws -- The extent of the Failure not exaggerated -- Sir James Graham and Sir R. Peel -- Appointments of Drs . Lindley and Playfair to investigate the Blight -- Sir R. Peel announces that he is a convert to the repeal of the Corn Laws -- States his views , but does not reason on them -- The Quarterly Review -- Special Commissioners -- Mr. Buller 's letter -- Sir James Graham and the Premier -- Proceeding by Proclamation instead of by Order in Council -- Sir James 's sharp reply -- Agitation to stop distillation -- County Meetings proposed by the Lord Lieutenant -- Cabinet Council -- The Premier puts his views before it in a memorandum -- The Corn Laws -- Some of the Cabinet displeased with his views -- On the 6th November he submits another memorandum to the Cabinet -- Lord Stanley dissents from the Premier 's views -- The Cabinet meet again next day and he concludes the memorandum -- On the 29th November he sends to each of his colleagues a more detailed exposition of his views -- Several reply -- Another mem . brought before them on the 2nd December -- The Cabinet in permanent session -- On the 5th of December Sir Robert resigns -- Lord John Russell fails to form a Government -- The old Cabinet again in power -- Mr. Gladstone replaces Lord Stanley , 75 CHAPTER IV . Meeting of Parliament -- Queen 's Speech -- The Premier 's speech on the Address -- Goes into the whole question of Free Trade -- The protectionists -- Lord Brougham 's views ( _Note_ ) -- The twelve nights' debate on the Corn Laws -- No connection between it and the Famine -- Stafford O'Brien 's speech -- Sir James Graham 's reply -- Smith O'Brien 's speech -- His imprisonment ( Note B . ) -- O'Connell's motion -- His speech -- Sir Robert Peel replies -- Substantially agrees with O'Connell -- Bill for the protection of life in Ireland -- Its first reading opposed by the Irish members -- O'Connell leads the Opposition in a speech of two hours -- Mr. D'Israeli mistaken in calling it his last speech -- His account of it -- He misrepresents it -- The opinions expressed in it were those O'Connell always held . Break up of the Tory party -- Lord George Bentinck becomes leader of the Protectionists -- Their difficulty in opposing the Coercion Bill -- Ingenious plan of Lord George -- Strange combination against the Government -- Close of Debate on Coercion Bill -- Government defeated by a majority of 73 -- Measures to meet the Famine -- Delay -- Accounts from various parts of the country -- Great distress -- '' Are the Landlords making any efforts ? '' -- Notice for rent -- The bailiff 's reply -- Number of Workhouses open -- Number of persons in them -- Sir Robert Peel's speech on his resignation -- Accident to him -- His death -- The Peels -- Sir Robert 's qualities and character -- His manner of dealing with the Famine -- His real object the repeal of the Corn Laws , 93 CHAPTER V. John Russell Prime Minister -- He confers important offices on some Irish Catholics -- His address to the electors of London -- Its vagueness -- Addresses of some of the other new Ministers -- The Irish difficulty greater than ever -- Young and Old Ireland -- The _Times_ on O'Connell and English rule in Ireland -- Overtures of the Whig Government -- O'Connell listens to them -- The eleven measures -- Views of the advanced Repealers -- Lord Miltown 's letter to O'Connell -- Dissensions in the Repeal Association -- The `` Peace Resolutions '' -- O'Connell 's letters -- He censures the _Nation_ newspaper -- Debate in the Repeal Association -- Thomas Francis Meagher 's `` Sword speech '' -- The Young Ireland party leave Conciliation Hall in a body -- Description of the scene ( _Note_ ) -- Reflections -- Sir Robert Peel 's speech after his resignation -- Lord John Russell's speech at Glasgow -- His speech on the Irish Coercion Bill -- His speech after becoming Prime Minister -- The Potato Blight reappears -- Accounts from the Provinces -- Father Mathew 's letter -- Value of the Potato Crop of 1846 -- Various remedies , theories , and speculations -- State of the weather -- Mr. Cooper 's observations at Markree Castle -- Lord Monteagle 's motion in the House of Lords for employing the people -- Profitable employment the right thing -- The Marquis of Lansdowne replies -- It is hard to relieve a poor country like Ireland -- Lord Devon 's opinion -- The Premier 's statement about relief -- The wonderful cargo of Indian meal -- Sir R. Peel's fallacies -- Bill for Baronial Sessions -- Cessation of Government Works -- The Mallow Relief Committee -- Beds of stone ! -- High rents on the poor -- The Social Condition of the Hottentot as compared with that of Mick Sullivan -- Rev . Mr. Gibson 's views -- Mr. Tuke 's account of Erris ( _Note_ ) -- Close of the Session of Parliament , 131 CHAPTER VI . The Labour-rate Act passed without opposition : entitled , An Act to Facilitate the Employment of the Labouring Poor -- Its provisions -- Government _Minute_ explaining them -- Heads of Minute -- Rate of wages -- Dissatisfaction with it -- Commissary-General Hewetson 's letter -- Exorbitant prices -- Opinion expressed on this head by an American Captain -- The Government will not order food as Sir R. Peel did -- Partial and unjust taxation -- Opposition to the Labour-rate Act -- Reproductive employment called for -- Lord Devon's opinion -- Former works not to be completed under the Act -- Minute of 31st of August -- Modified by Mr. Labouchere 's letter of 5th of September -- People taxed who paid a rent of 4 a year -- In many cases a hardship -- Barren works the great blot of the Labour-rate Act -- Arguments against the Act -- Resources of the country should have been developed -- Panic among landowners -- Rev . Mr. Moore's letters -- Level roads a good thing -- Food better -- A cry of excessive population raised -- Ireland not overpeopled -- Employ the people on tilling the soil -- Sir R. Routh takes the same view -- Relief Committee of Kells and Fore -- Reproductive employment -- Plan suggested -- Address to the Lord Lieutenant -- True remedy -- O'Connell on the Famine -- Writes from Darrynane on the subject -- Money in the hands of Board of Works -- Compulsory reclamation of waste lands -- Drainage Bill -- Mr. Kennedy 's opinion -- Who is to blame ? -- The Government , the landlords , or the people ? -- O'Connell for united action -- Outdoor relief 