Nor was this all . The inexorable stern of the _Minnie Williams_ followed after , raising the roof of the Higgins place with the skillful care of an epicure taking the cover off his favorite dish . The roof yielded with only a gentle rippling motion , and the ship 's lifeboat , which hung from davits aft , scraped the remains of supper off the supper table with her keel . Zinie Shadd , returning late from a lodge meeting which had wound up with a little supper in the banquet hall , felt a queer stir through his members to see the Higgins place alter its usually placid countenance , falter , turn half round , and get down on its knees with an apparently disastrous collapse of its four walls and of everything within them . The short wide windows narrowed and lengthened with an effect of bodily agony as the ribs of the place were snapped off short all round the eaves . `` God help them poor creatures inside ! '' he was moved to utter out of the goodness of his heart . `` She went in jest as easy , '' he recounted later to one of his cronies . `` It war n't no more exertion for her than 't would be to you to stick your finger through a cream puff . '' `` How come it they 'scaped with a whole skin ? '' `` I do n't see for the life of me . Elmer says himself it 's just another case of where it 's _for_ a man to live , and if it ai n't for him to he wo n't , and if it 's for him to be will , and that 's about all there is to it . '' Elmer 's exact phrase has been that he guessed nothing coming from the sea side would ever cheat the gallows . Pearl Higgins told a friend of hers that the one thing that came into her mind as she lay there was that the place had been torpedoed . `` I knew what it was just as well as I wanted to , '' she said . She had known all along that if any place would get it it would be the Higgins place , on account of its exposed position , right in line with anything that showed up at the mouth of the harbor . Of course if she had stopped to think she would have known that a torpedo did n't come through a house at the snail 's pace the stove was moving at when it looked through at her . `` But my land , at a time like that what is a body to think ? '' she inquired . Of course as soon as she could get her wits together she could see that it was her own stove , and nothing to be afraid of in itself if only she knew what was animating it . There was the rub . The truth is , the performance of the stove , at that hour of the night , too , was so wholly out of the ordinary that she and Elmer had not so much as stirred out of their tracks for the fraction of a second it took the thing to come clear into the room . Pearl said later that she thought she was seeing things . `` Scared ? I was petrified ! I could n't stir hand or foot , '' she told her friend . `` You talk about your flabbergasted women ! I never had such a feeling come over me before . '' Of course neither of them had the faintest notion of what was at the back of it , and that made it all the worse . Pearl lay there under the clothes as limp as a rag , and the main boom of the _Minnie Williams_ , which as we know was the thing behind it all , urged the stove forward until it was in square contact with the foot of the bed . Now if there was one thing on which Pearl Higgins prided herself it was her bed . It was a mountainous , whale-backed , feather-bedded four-poster , built in the days of San Domingo mahogany , and quite capable of supporting the weight of a baby elephant without a quiver . Equipped with the legs of a colossus it had a frame to match . Tradition had it that a governor of the state had once lain in it . If there was one thing sure , therefore , it was that the bed would not collapse . But then again the _Minnie Williams_ was a lady not to be denied . She must come on ; she could not help it for her heart , for the bitter end of the chain cable was not yet , and she still had way on her . The bed , the stove and the boom met , they fitted together as if they had been made for one another from the beginning , they engaged each other like vertebra in a spine , they stiffened . There came a fearful rending of laths ; the mopboard buckled ; two vases of alabaster fell from the parlor mantel , and almost at the same moment the red plush clock with the stone cuckoo-bird over the dial and the music box `` where its gizzard should have been , '' as Elmer always said , fell likewise . Pearl said afterward she knew that had gone because it started playing there on the floor at a great rate . And the next thing she knew she was in the parlor herself ; and such a mess ! She did n't know as she ever wanted to lay eyes on it again after that night 's works . Elmer , uncertain what part to play , walked along with the bed , still carrying the hand lamp in his hand , to light the _Minnie Williams_ along , and dodging falling walls and plaster . He said when questioned by Zinie Shadd that he had n't felt any particular alarm , on account of the deliberate way she had come poking in there , with a kind of a root-hog-or-die look about her ; and he said he never for a minute doubted his ability and Pearl 's to make good their escape if the worst came to the worst . It really was n't until the parlor went , as he explained to the Tall Stove Club , that he took it into his head to look over his shoulder ; and it was then that he saw the lifeboat sweeping on victoriously across the kitchen , or what had been the kitchen . And on top of that he saw Hat Tyler looking down as cool as a cucumber , and her husband standing beside her . `` She had come on deck jest as she was , '' he stated at that time with a quiet chuckle , `` and I never see anything like so much interest showing in a human countenance before . '' Hat Tyler might well show interest ; for after the house came the land -- and the land , well she knew it , was made of sterner stuff . A shriek from Pearl told Elmer that his wife had found her tongue , as he phrased it . The fact is she had caught sight of Hat Tyler standing over her like an avenging fury . But precisely at this moment the chain cable , which had all this time lain lethargic on the floor of the harbor , roused itself link by link , tautened , took a grip on the hook and snubbed the ship . None too soon , it had run out to the bitter end . Pearl Higgins ' bed halted , the stove halted , and Elmer set down his lamp . The boom receded . With the same swanlike ease she had used in effecting an entrance , the _Minnie Williams_ floated out into the stream again . And in the very instant of that heaven-sent reversal Hat Tyler cried in trumpet tones , `` Travel yourself , and see how you like it ! '' A shriek of demoniac laughter came on the heels of that . There were none present to laugh with Hat , but that laugh of hers rang in Pearl Higgins' ears like the last trump . She got herself over the side of the bed in short order . Too late , alas ! Hat Tyler 's had been a Parthian shot . The ship was out of the house altogether by then , and the roof had settled back over its joists at a rakish angle . The whole after part of the house was mashed into a neat concavity which would have made a perfect mold for the _Minnie Williams'_ stern , and the _Minnie Williams_ was in the stream again , with not a scratch about her . `` Ai n't that something ? '' Elmer Higgins said , standing at the edge of this declivity . `` Ai n't that something huge ? '' `` Stand there and gawk ! I would if I was you ! '' cried his wife . `` Oh , will I ever get that laugh out of my ears if I live to be a hundred ? Did ever you hear anything so hateful ? I think you 're a pretty small part of a man myself ! The least you could have done was to have lit into her when you had the chance . `` But no , not you ! What do you do but stand there and never so much as open your mouth ! '' `` I was so kind of took aback , '' Elmer advanced , `` what with one thing and another , I could n't seem to lay my hands on jest the words I wanted . And she standing there jest as she was too . Ai n't she immense ? Where you going to look to for a solider woman than Hat ? '' `` It 's just like her for all the world , pushing herself in where she's not wanted , '' sobbed Pearl miserably . `` The gall of her ! And she just itching to get this house out of the way too ! I suppose you 'll be just contrary-minded enough now to say that she did n't do it on purpose ? '' `` No , '' said Elmer , solemn as a judge . `` She forelaid for it all right , all right . I been saying right along she war n't a woman to sit quiet under a blow , and I told you as much at the time , mamma , if you 'll recollect . I said , 'When Hat hits back I look out from under . ' '' He picked a lump of plaster out of his ear and lifted high the lamp . `` But my grief , my grief , when all is said and done , ai n't she a dabster ! '' he whispered with a tinge of admiration . `` And warn't it -- war n't it nice calculation ? '' THE MEEKER RITUAL [ 14 ] [ Note 14 : Copyright , 1919 , by The Century Company . Copyright , 1920 , by Joseph Hergesheimer . ] BY JOSEPH HERGESHEIMER From _The Century_ I . THE ROCK OF AGES The entire pretension is so ridiculous that it is difficult to credit the extent of its acceptance . I do n't mean McGeorge 's story , but the whole sweep of spiritism . It ought to be unnecessary to point out the puerility of the evidence -- the absurd babble advanced as the speech of wise men submerged in the silent consummation of death , the penny tricks with bells and banjos , the circus-like tables and anthropomorphic Edens . Yet , so far as the phrase goes , there is something in it ; but whatever that is , lies in demonstrable science , the investigations of the subconscious by Freud and Jung . McGeorge himself , a reporter with a sufficient education in the actual , tried to repeat impartially , with the vain illusion of an open mind , what he had been told ; but it was clear that his power of reasoning had been disarranged . We were sitting in the Italian restaurant near his paper to which he had conducted me , and he was inordinately troubled by flies . A small , dark man , he was never without a cigarette ; he had always been nervous , but I had no memory of such uneasiness as he now exhibited . `` It 's rather dreadful , '' he said , gazing at me for an instant , and then shifting his glance about the white plaster walls and small flock of tables , deserted at that hour . `` I mean this thing of not really dying -- hanging about in the wind , in space . I used to have a natural dread of death ; but now I 'm afraid of -- of keeping on . When you think of it , a grave 's quite a pleasant place . It 's restful . This other -- '' He broke off , but not to eat . `` My editor , '' he began anew , apparently at a tangent , `` would n't consider it . I was glad . I 'd like to forget it , go back . There might be a story for you . '' Whatever he had heard in connection with the Meeker circle , I assured him , would offer me nothing ; I did n't write that sort of thing . `` You 'd appreciate Lizzie Tuoey , '' he asserted . McGeorge had been sent to the Meeker house to unearth what he could about the death of Mrs. Kraemer . He described vividly the location , which provided the sole interest to an end admitted normal in its main features . It was , he said , one of those vitrified wildernesses of brick that have given the city the name of a place of homes ; dreadful . Amazing in extent , it was without a single feature to vary the monotony of two-storied dwellings cut into exact parallelograms by paved streets ; there was a perspective of continuous faades and unbroken tin roofs in every direction , with a grocery or drug-store and an occasional saloon at the corners , and beyond the sullen red steeple of a church . Dusk was gathering when McGeorge reached the Meekers . It was August , and the sun had blazed throughout the day , with the parching heat ; the smell of brick dust and scorched tin was hideous . His word . There was , too , a faint metallic clangor in the air . He knew that it came from the surface-cars , yet he could not rid himself of the thought of iron furnace-doors . He had , of course , heard of the Meekers before . So had I , for that matter . A crack-brained professor had written a laborious , fantastic book about their mediumship and power of communication with the other world . They sat together as a family : the elder Meekers ; the wife's sister ; a boy , Albert , of fourteen ; Ena , close to twenty ; and Jannie , a girl seventeen years old and the medium proper . Jannie 's familiar spirit was called Stepan . He had , it seemed , lived and died in the reign of Peter the Great ; yet he was still actual , but unmaterialized , and extremely anxious to reassure every one through Jannie of the supernal happiness of the beyond . What messages I read , glancing over hysterical pages , gave me singularly little comfort , with the possible exception of the statement that there were cigars ; good cigars Stepan , or Jannie , explained , such as on earth cost three for a quarter . However , most of what McGeorge told me directly concerned Lizzie Tuoey . The Meekers he could n't see at all . They remained in an undiscovered part of the house -- there was a strong reek of frying onions from the kitchen -- and delegated the servant as their link with the curious or respectful or impertinent world . Lizzie admitted him to the parlor , where , she informed him , the sittings took place . There was n't much furniture beyond a plain , heavy table , an array of stiff chairs thrust back against the walls , and on a mantel a highly painted miniature Rock of Ages , with a white-clad figure clinging to it , washed with a poisonous green wave , all inclosed in a glass bell . At the rear was a heavy curtain that , he found , covered the entrance to a smaller room . Lizzie was a stout , cheerful person , with the ready sympathies and superstitions of the primitive mind of the south of Ireland . She was in a maze of excitement , and his difficulty was not to get her to talk , but to arrest her incoherent flood of invocations , saints ' names , and credulity . Her duties at the Meekers had been 