Thus when the people -- waking up from the stupefaction that followed on the most tragic period of the famine -- began to breathe the breath of political life again , and , perceiving the danger that menaced the existence of the peasant classes , set on foot an agitation to procure a reform of the land-laws , the government resolutely opposed the project ; defeated the bills which the friends of the tenantry brought into parliament ; and took steps , which proved only too successful , for the break up of the organization by which the movement was conducted . And then , when Frederick Lucas was dead , and Mr. Duffy had gone into exile , and the patriot priests were debarred from taking part in politics , and Messrs. John Sadlier and William Keogh were bought over by bribes of place and pay , the government appeared to think that Irish patriotism had fought in its last ditch , and received its final defeat . But they were mistaken . The old cause that had survived so many disasters was not dead yet . While the efforts of the Tenant Righters in Ireland were being foiled , and their party was being scattered , a couple of Irishmen , temporarily resident in Paris , fugitive because of their connexion with the events of '48 , were laying the foundations of a movement more profoundly dangerous to England , than any of those with which she had grappled since the days of Wolfe Tone and Lord Edward Fitzgerald . Those men were John O'Mahony and James Stephens . Since then their names have been much heard of , and the organization of which they were the originators has played an important part in Irish history . But at the period of which we are now writing , the general public knew nothing of O'Mahony or of Stephens beyond the fact that they were alleged to have taken some part in the recent insurrectionary demonstrations . Stephens , who was then a very young lad , had been present at the Ballingarry attack , and had been severely wounded by the fire of the police . He managed to crawl away from the spot to a ditch side , where he was lost sight of . A report of his death was put into circulation , and a loyal journal published in Kilkenny -- the native town of the young rebel , who in this instance played his first trick on the government -- referred to his supposed decease in terms which showed that the rule _de mortuis nil nisi bonum_ found acceptance with the editor . The following are the words of the obituary notice which appeared in the _Kilkenny Moderator_ on or about the 19th of August , 1848 : -- `` Poor James Stephens , who followed Smith O'Brien to the field , has died of the wound which he received at Ballingarry whilst acting as aide-de-camp to the insurgent leader . Mr. Stephens was a very amiable , and apart from politics , most inoffensive young man , possessed of a great deal of talent , and we believe he was a most excellent son and brother . His untimely and melancholy fate will be much regretted by a numerous circle of friends . '' It is said that his family very prudently fostered this delusion by going into mourning for the loss of young James -- the suggestion of which clever ruse probably came from the dear boy himself . A short time afterwards he managed to escape , disguised as a lady 's maid , to France . As one may gather from the paragraph above quoted , the family were much respected in the locality . Mr. Stephens , father of the future C.O.I.R. , was clerk in the establishment of a respectable auctioneer and bookseller in Kilkenny . He gave his children a good education , and sent young James to a Catholic seminary with a view to his being taught and trained for the priesthood . But circumstances prevented the realization of this design , and before any line of business could be marked out for young Stephens , the political events above referred to took place and shaped his future career . John O'Mahony was a different stamp of man . He belonged to the class known as gentlemen-farmers , and of that class he was one of the most respected . His family owned a considerable tract of land in the southern part of the County of Tipperary , of which they had been occupants for many generations . He was well educated , of studious habits , and thoroughly imbued with patriotic feeling , which came to him as a hereditary possession . When the Young Ireland leaders were electrifying the country by their spirited appeals to the patriotism and bravery of the Irish race , and the population in all the chief centres of intelligence were crystalizing into semi-military organizations , O'Mahony was not apathetic or inactive . One of the strongest of the Confederate clubs -- which were thick sown in the contiguous districts of the Counties of Cork , Waterford , and Tipperary -- was under his presidency ; and when in July , 1848 , the leaders of the movement scattered themselves over the country for the purpose of ascertaining the degree of support they would receive if they should decide on unfurling the green banner , his report of the state of affairs in his district was one of their most cheering encouragements . A few days afterwards the outbreak under O'Brien occurred at Ballingarry . The failure of that attempt , and the irresolute manner in which it was conducted , had disheartened the country , but the idea of allowing the struggle to rest at that point was not universally entertained by the leaders of the clubs ; and John O'Mahony was one of those who resolved that another attempt should be made to rally the people to the insurrectionary standard . He acted up to his resolution . On the night of the 12th of September there were signal-fires on the slopes of Slievenamon and the Comeragh mountains , and the district between Carrick-on-Suir and Callan was in a state of perturbation . Next day the alarm was spread in all directions . The gentry of the disturbed districts rushed into the nearest towns for protection ; police from the outlying barracks were called in to reinforce the threatened stations , and troops were hastily summoned from Dublin and the neighbouring garrisons . Meanwhile parties of the insurgents began to move about . One proceeded to the police station at the Slate-quarries , and finding it deserted -- the policemen having retired on Piltown -- burned it to the ground . Another attempted the destruction of Grany bridge , to delay the advance of the soldiery . A third proceeded to attack the Glenbower station . The defenders of the barracks were in a rather critical position when another party of police , on their way from the Nine-Mile-House station to Carrick , came upon the spot , and the combined force speedily put their half-armed assailants to flight , with a loss to the latter of one man severely wounded and one killed . An attack was made on the barrack at Portlaw , but with a like result ; two men were stricken dead by the bullets of the police . The people soon afterwards scattered to their homes , and the soldiery and police had nothing to do but hunt up for the leaders and other parties implicated in the movement . John O'Mahony narrowly escaped capture on three or four occasions . He lingered in the country , however , until after the conviction of the state prisoners at Clonmel , when it became clear to him that the cause was lost for a time ; and he then took his way to Paris , whither several of his fellow outlaws , for whose arrest the government had offered large rewards , had gone before him . In that famous centre of intellect and of intrigue , the focus of political thought , the fountain-head of great ideas , John O'Mahony and James Stephens pondered long over the defeat that had come upon the Irish cause , and in their ponderings bethought them that the reason of the failure which they deplored was to be found in the want of that quiet , earnest , secret preparation , by means of which the Continental revolutionists were able to produce from time to time such volcanic effects in European politics , and cause the most firmly-rooted dynasties to tremble for their positions . The system of secret conspiracy -- that ancient system , `` old as the universe , yet not outworn '' -- a system not unknown in Ireland from the days of the Attacots to those of the Whiteboys -- the system of Sir Phelim O'Neill and of Theobald Wolfe Tone -- that system , as developed , refined , and elaborated by the most subtle intellects of modern times , those two men proposed to propagate among the Irish race at home and abroad . They divided the labour between them . O'Mahony took the United States of America for his field of action , and Stephens took the Old Country . It was in the year 1858 that the first symptoms indicative of the work to which James Stephens had set himself made their appearance in the extreme south-west of Ireland . Whispers went about that some of the young men of Kenmare , Bantry , and Skibbereen were enrolled in a secret sworn organization , and were in the habit of meeting for the purpose of training and drilling . Indeed the members of the new society took little pains to conceal its existence ; they seemed rather to find a pride in the knowledge which their neighbours had of the fact , and relied for their legal safety on certain precautions adopted in the manner of their initiation as members . When informed firstly by well known nationalists in a private manner , and subsequently by public remonstrances addressed to them by Catholic clergymen and the national journals , that the government were on their track , they refused to believe it ; but ere long they suffered grievously for their incredulity and want of prudence . In the early days of December , 1858 , the swoop of the government was made on the members of the `` Phoenix Society '' in Cork and Kerry , and arrests followed shortly after in other parts of the country . The trials in the south commenced at Tralee in March , 1859 , when a conviction was obtained against a man named Daniel O'Sullivan , and he was sentenced to penal servitude for ten years . The remaining cases were adjourned to the next assizes , and when they came on in July , 1859 , the prisoners put in a plea of guilty , and were set at liberty on the understanding that if their future conduct should not be satisfactory to the authorities , they would be called up for sentence . Amongst the Cork prisoners who took this course was Jeremiah O'Donovan ( Rossa ) , whose name has since then been made familiar to the public . Those events were generally supposed to have extinguished the Phoenix conspiracy . And many of Ireland 's most sincere friends hoped that such was the case . Recognising fully the peculiar powers which a secret society can bring to bear against the government , they still felt a profound conviction that the risks , or rather the certain cost of liberty and life involved in such a mode of procedure , formed more than a counterpoise for the advantages which it presented . They were consequently earnest and emphatic in their endeavours to dissuade their countrymen from treading in the dangerous paths in which their steps were dogged by the spy and the informer . The Catholic clergy were especially zealous in their condemnation of secret revolutionary societies , urged thereto by a sense of their duty as priests and patriots . But there were men connected with the movement both in America and Ireland , who were resolved to persevere in their design of extending the organization among the Irish people , despite of any amount of opposition from any quarter whatsoever . In pursuit of that object they were not over scrupulous as to the means they employed ; they did not hesitate to violate many an honourable principle , and to wrong many an honest man ; nor did they exhibit a fair share of common prudence in dealing with the difficulties of their position ; but unexpected circumstances arose to favour their propagandism , and it went ahead despite of all their mistakes and of every obstacle . One of those circumstances was the outbreak of the civil war in America , which took place in April , 1861 . That event seemed to the leaders of the Irish revolutionary organization , now known as the Fenian Brotherhood , to be one of the most fortunate for their purposes that could have happened . It inspired the whole population of America with military ardour , it opened up a splendid school in which the Irish section of the people could acquire a knowledge of the art of war , which was exactly what was needed to give real efficacy to their endeavours for the overthrow of British dominion in Ireland . Besides , there appeared to be a strong probability that the line of action in favour of the Southern States which England , notwithstanding her proclamation of neutrality , had adopted from an early stage of the conflict , would speedily involve her in a war with the Federal government . These things constituted a prospect dazzling to the eyes of the Irishmen who had `` gone with a vengeance . '' Their hearts bounded with joy at the opportunities that appeared to be opening on them . At last the time was near , they believed , when the accumulated hate of seven centuries would burst upon the power of England , not in the shape of an undisciplined peasantry armed with pikes , and scythes , and pitchforks , as in 1798 -- not in the shape of a half famished and empty-handed crowd , led to battle by orators and poets , as in 1848 , but in the shape of an army , bristling with sharp steel , and flanked with thunderous cannon -- an army skilled in the modern science of war , directed by true military genius , and inspired by that burning valour which in all times was one of the qualities of the Irish race . Influenced by such hopes and feelings , the Irish of the Northern States poured by thousands into the Federal ranks , and formed themselves into regiments that were at the same time so many Fenian circles . In the Southern army , too , there were many Irishmen who were not less determined to give to their native land the benefit of their military experience , as soon as the troubles of their adopted country should be brought to an end . Fenianism , with that glow of light upon it , spread like a prairie-fire through the States . The ranks of the organization swelled rapidly , and money contributions poured like a tide into its treasury . The impulse was felt also by the society in Ireland . It received a rapid development , and soon began to put on a bold front towards the government , and a still more belligerent one towards all Irishmen who , while claiming the character of patriots , declined to take part in the Fenian movement or recommend it to their countrymen . In November , 1863 , the brotherhood started the _Irish People_ newspaper in Dublin , for the double purpose of propagating their doctrines and increasing the revenues of the society . James Stephens was the author of this most unfortunate project . The men whom he selected for working it out were Thomas Clarke Luby , John O'Leary , and Charles Joseph Kickham . From the date of its establishment up to the mouth of September , 1865 -- a period of nearly two years -- the _Irish People_ occupied itself in preaching what its editors regarded as the cardinal doctrines of the society , which were : -- That constitutional agitation for the redress of Ireland 's grievances was worse than useless ; that every man taking part in such agitation was either a fool or a knave ; that in political affairs clergymen should be held of no more account than laymen ; and that the only hope for Ireland lay in an armed uprising of the people . These doctrines were not quite new ; not one of them was absolutely true ; but they were undoubtedly held by many thousands of Irishmen , and the Fenian society took care to secure for the journal in which they were advocated , a large circulation . The office of the _Irish People_ soon came to be regarded as , what it really was , the head quarters of the Fenian organization in Ireland . To it the choice spirits of the party resorted for counsel and direction ; thither the provincial organisers directed their steps whenever they visited Dublin ; into it poured weekly from all parts of the country an immense mass of correspondence , which the editors , instead of destroying after it had 