However much it may seem contrary to the theory of romantic young men and women , I am forced to state that notwithstanding her former love for Hiram Meeker , Emma Tenant had not been six months in Europe before the wound might be considered healed . As her mind became enlarged by taking in the variety of scenes which were presented , scenes ever fresh and changing , she was better enabled to judge how far such a person as Hiram Meeker could ultimately make her happy . Day by day she saw his character more clearly and in a truer light , and could thus fully appreciate the narrow escape she had from a life of wretchedness . Before she encountered young Lawrence , she had become entirely disenchanted . The former illusion was fully dispelled , and her heart left quite free to be engrossed by a new interest . Young ladies and gentlemen ! Am I giving currency to theories which you are accustomed to consider heretical ? I am but recording the simple truth . * * * * * By the time Emma Tenant had reached New York the affianced of Henry Lawrence ( subject , of course , to her parents ' approbation ) , Hiram Meeker was engaged to -- Miss Thorne . Once decided on his course , Hiram pursued his object with the tenacity of a slow hound . He took advantage of every weakness . He operated on her jealous nature so as to subject her to all the tortures which that spirit begets . By turns he flattered and browbeat her . He was sunny and amiable , or crabbed and austere , as suited his purpose . In fact , he so played on the poor girl , whose vanity and suspicion and jealous fear of a rival were intense , that he made her life miserable . She was even thwarted in the quarter where her strength principally lay . For Hiram treated her fortune as a mere nothing at all . If she , as had been her custom , headed a subscription for some charity at St. Jude 's , Hiram was sure to put down his name for double the amount in close proximity to hers . At last her spirit was completely broken by the persevering , unsparing , flattering , cajoling , remorseless Hiram . So she stopped quarrelling , and yielded . Then , how charming was our hero ! Amiable , kind , desirous to please , yet despotic to an extent : never yielding the power and ascendency he had gained over her . The great point now was to prevent any marriage settlement . Being married , since Miss Thorne 's property was all 'personal , ' he could at once possess himself of it . Prior to the engagement , Hiram had often repeated that he would many no woman who maintained a separate estate . And so much did he dwell on this that Miss Thorne was actually afraid to speak to her solicitor on the subject . In the summer succeeding the gay season we have spoken of , Hiram Meeker and Arabella Thorne were united at St. Jude 's by the Rev . Charles Myrtle , in presence of 'the most aristocratic and fashionable concourse ever assembled on such an occasion . ' The Bennetts were present in great profusion . Mrs. Myrtle , all smiles and tears , stood approvingly by . Mr. Myrtle , so all declared , never performed the ceremony so well before . Miss Innis had a conspicuous place in the proceedings , she being the first of the four bridesmaids who attended Arabella to the altar . I have never been able to explain her selection of one she had so feared and hated as a rival , nor Miss Innis 's acceptance . But there she stood , very beautiful , and apparently much interested in what was going on . * * * * * After they had returned from their wedding tour , Hiram took possession of his wife 's securities . His heart throbbed with excitement and his eyes glistened as he looked them over . Mr. Bennett had fallen considerably short of the mark . Here were more than two hundred and fifty thousand dollars ! Just then real estate had fallen to the extreme lowest point after the collapse of the former high speculative prices . Hiram took immediate advantage of this state of things . During the next three months he had sold out his wife 's securities , and invested two hundred thousand dollars in vacant lots admirably situated in the upper part of the city . The balance he put into his business . From that period it did not require a heavy discounting of the future to write Hiram Meeker a MILLIONAIRE . END OF PART II . DEAD ! Dead -- dead -- no matter , the skies are blue , In their fathomless depths above , And the glad Earth 's robes are as bright in hue , And worn with as regal a grace , and true , As they were on the day they were woven new By the hand of Infinite Love . Hush ! hush ! -- there is music out in the street , A popular martial strain ; While the constant patter of countless feet Keeps time to the strokes of the drum 's quick beat , And the echoing voices that mix and meet Swell out in a glad refrain . Lost -- lost ! Oh , why , when the earth is bright , And soft is the zephyr 's breath , Oh ! why , when the world is so full of light , Should the wild heart , robed in a cloak of night , Send up from frozen lips and white A desolate cry of death ? Dead -- dead ! How wearily drag the days ; And wearily life runs on ! The skies look cold , through a misty haze , That curdles the gold of the bright sun 's rays , And the dead leaves cover the banks and braes , A shroud of the summer gone . Last year -- nay ! nay ! I do not complain ; There are graves in the heart of all ; So I do not murmur ; 'twere weak and vain ; I accept in silence my share of pain , And the clouds , with their fringes of crimson stain , That over my young life fall . There were beautiful days last year , I mind , When the maple trees turned red , They flew away like the sportive wind , But I gathered the joys they left behind , As I gather the leaves , but to-day I find That the joys , like the leaves , _are dead_ . One year ! It is past , and I stand _alone_ , Where I stood with another then ; 'T is well -- I had scorned to have held _my own_ From the bloody strife , though my soul had known That _his_ life would ebb ere the day was gone , Amid thousands of nameless men . _Nameless_ , yet never a one less dear Than the _dearest_ of all the dead ; I weep -- but , Father , my bitter tear Falleth not down o'er a _single_ bier -- I mourn not the joys of the lost last year , But the rivers of bright blood shed . RECONSTRUCTION . Reconstruction sounds the key note of American politics to-day . It is as true now as when Webster first said it , that 'the people of this country , by a vast and countless majority , are attached to the Union . ' Reconstruction is the hope of the Union ; and the hope of the Union is the controlling energy of the war . Hence , naturally , the theories that prevail in regard to reconstruction begin to define the political parties of the immediate future . United on the war , which they hold to be not simply inevitable , but also a war in the combined interests of liberty and order , and , therefore , just , the people seem likely about to be divided on questions suggested by the probably speedy termination of the war . The Union one and indivisible is the fundamental maxim on which all such questions must be based . So long as the name of Washington is reverenced among them , the American people will accept no other basis of settlement . The Union is to them the security and hope of all political blessings -- liberty , justice , political order -- which blessings it insures . Disunion is revolution , and puts them in peril . Therefore , no theory of reconstruction is practicable which countenances disunion , or in anywise assails the principle of the eternal oneness and indivisibility of the Union . THEORIES OF RECONSTRUCTION . There are three prominent theories of reconstruction now before the people . The first , as being in the natural and constitutional order of things , has shaped the policy of the Administration in its whole conduct of affairs . It supposes the rebellion to be an armed insurrection against the authority of the United States , usurping the functions and powers of various State Governments , and seeking to overthrow the Nation . So considering it , the whole power of the Nation has been brought to bear to subdue it , in accordance with the just authority conferred by the Constitution , which is the organic law of the Nation . The steadfast prosecution of this policy , upheld and supported by the people with a unanimity and patient faith that have strengthened the cause of democratic government all over the earth , has rescued from the rebellion and restored to their undisputed position in the Union , the States of Kentucky , Missouri , and now , at last , Tennessee , with a portion of Virginia . Such are the results to the Union of the natural and constitutional policy that aims at reconstruction through restoration . The two other theories spoken of may be best considered together , as they originated in a common purpose , namely , the abolition of slavery , which it is supposed can not be attained by the ordinary processes of war under the Constitution . Their advocates , however , contend that they are strictly constitutional . The first of these theories supposes that the States included in the rebellion have , by the fact of rebellion , forfeited all rights as States . It is argued that States , like individuals , forfeit their rights by rebellion . The other theory supposes that the States having rebelled , may be dealt with as foreign States ; so that , according to the laws of war , the nation may treat them altogether as alien enemies , and in the event of the Nation 's triumph , the States will be in all respects like conquered provinces . It will be observed that each of these theories ignores the principle of the indivisibility of the Union , and presupposes a dismemberment of it on the part of every rebellious State . I . THEORY OF STATE SUICIDE . Probably no one will deny that rebellion works a forfeiture of all political rights to those engaged in it . The subject who renounces his allegiance can claim no protection : just as the Government that should fail to protect its subjects , could not claim their allegiance . Allegiance and protection are reciprocal and interdependent duties , and the failure of one involves and works the failure of the other . So that it might be quite correct to declare , in reference to the Southern rebellion , that a rebel has no rights which the United States is bound to respect . It will be perceived that the question of _right_ is here spoken of , and not the question of _policy_ . No feeling of sympathy with a defeated people , not the thousand-fold natural ties that bind the North and the South , should blind our eyes to the main question of right . Any policy toward repentant rebels that is not magnanimous and honorably befitting our complete triumph , can never find favor with the American people , nor ought to ; but the incalculably precious interests of the Nation will not admit of any uncertain precedents in regard to secession . The precedent must be perfectly clear . It must be established unqualifiedly and unalterably that secession is treason , and that whoever is concerned in it is a traitor and must expect a traitor's punishment . It has been common to call secession a political heresy . The rebellion , the fruit of secession , stamps it as more and worse than simply a heresy . It is inchoate treason , and only awaits the favorable conditions to become open and flagrant . The patriotism , therefore , of any man may fairly be suspected , who , refusing to be taught by the experience of this war , revealing these things as in the clear light of midday , can speak softly and with 'bated breath ' of secession . His country 's baptism of fire has not regenerated such a man . The attempt , as the legitimate and inevitable result of secession , to overthrow a Government whose burdens rested so lightly on its citizens as to have given rise to a current phrase that they were unfelt ; and yet whose magnificent power gave it rank among the first of nations , securing full protection to the humblest of its citizens , and causing the name of American to be as proud a boast as Roman in the day of Rome 's power ; and withal being the recognized refuge and hope of liberty and humanity all over the globe , as vindicating the right royalty of man ; -- the attempt to overthrow such a Government must stand forever as the blackest of crimes . For the Confederate treason is more than treason against the United States : it is a crime against humanity , and a conspiracy in the interest of despotism , denying the royalty of man . But , to return to our argument , a distinction is carefully to be noted between the consequences of rebellion to the individuals who engage in it and to the State which it assumes to control . It needs no argument to show that rebellion against the supreme power of a State does not necessarily affect the permanence of that power . If the rebellion fails , the rightful authority resumes its functions . If the rebellion succeeds , the movers of it assume the powers of the State , and succeed to all its functions . The civil wars of England furnish abundant illustration of this principle . However the course of Government may for the time have been checked , and its whole machinery disarranged , the subsidence of the tumult left the state , in every case , as an organic whole , the same . The consequences of unsuccessful rebellion fell only upon the persons engaged in it . So , in the successive changes that befell France after the Revolution , the state , as the body politic , remained unchanged . In dealing with the question of rebellion in our country the same principle applies , only another element enters into the calculation . That element results from the peculiar character of our Government in its twofold relation to the people of State and Nation . The Government springs directly from the people , who have ordained separate functions for the two separate organisms , or bodies politic , the State and the Nation . Strictly considered , there are not two Governments , there is only one Government . Certain functions of it are ordained to be executed by the State , and certain other functions by the Nation , How , then , can the State , as such , assume to set aside the ordained functions of the Nation ? How , on the other hand , might the Nation assume to control the ordained functions of the State ? Each to its own master standeth or falleth , and that master is the people . Hence , the absurdity of the doctrine which claims the right of a State to resume powers once delegated to the Nation . For the State , as such , never delegated those powers . Hence , the absurdity of secession as a dogma in American politics . And hence , also , it equally appears how absurd is any claim on the part of the Nation to visit upon the State organism the penalties of the treason of individuals against itself . Let it be remembered that the State derives none of its rights from the Nation . How , then , can it be said to forfeit its rights to the Nation ? The State is a separate and distinct organism , deriving its rights directly from the people within its territorial limit . They established it , and to them alone it is responsible . In the same manner , the people of the whole country , without regard to the territorial limits of States , established the Nation . The people of the whole country , therefore , have a permanent interest in the Nation , and no one portion of them may rightfully assume to 