Produced by Juliet Sutherland , Alicia Williams , and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team . SEARCHLIGHTS ON HEALTH THE SCIENCE OF EUGENICS * * * * * A Guide to Purity and Physical Manhood Advice to Maiden , Wife and Mother Love , Courtship , and Marriage * * * * * By PROF. B.G . JEFFERIS , M.D. , PH . D. and J.L . NICOLS , A.M. _With Excerpts from Well-Known Authorities_ REV . LEONARD DAWSON DR. M.J. SAVAGE REV . H.R . HAWEIS DR. PANCOAST DR . STALL DR. J.F . SCOTT DR. GEORGE NAPHEYS DR. STOCKHAM DR. T.D . NICHOLLS DR. R.L . DUGDALE DR. JOHN COWAN DR. M.L . HOLBROOK * * * * * Published by J.L . NICHOLS & COMPANY Naperville , Illinois , U.S.A. 1920 AGENTS WANTED '' Vice has no friend like the prejudice which claims to be virtue . '' -- _Lord Lytton._ '' When the judgment 's weak , the prejudice is strong . '' -- _Kate O'Hare._ '' It is the first right of every child to be well born . '' * * * * * COPYRIGHTED 1919 , BY J.L . NICHOLS & CO. OVER 1,000,000 COPIES SOLD * * * * * TABLE OF CONTENTS . [ Transcriber 's Note : This Table of Contents does not appear in the original book . It has been added to this document for ease of navigation . ] Knowledge is Safety , page 3 The Beginning of Life , page 5 Health a Duty , page 7 Value of Reputation , page 9 Influence of Associates , page 11 Self-Control , page 12 Habit , page 17 A Good Name , page 18 The Mother 's Influence , page 21 Home Power , page 23 To Young Women , page 26 Influence of Female Character , page 30 Personal Purity , page 31 How To Write All Kinds of Letters , page 34 How To Write a Love Letter , page 37 Forms of Social Letters , page 39 Letter Writing , page 43 Forms of Love Letters , page 44 Hints and Helps on Good Behavior at All Times and at All Places , page 49 A Complete Etiquette in a Few Practical Rules , page 52 Etiquette of Calls , page 56 Etiquette in Your Speech , page 57 Etiquette of Dress and Habits , page 58 Etiquette on the Street , page 59 Etiquette Between Sexes , page 60 Practical Rules on Table Manners , page 63 Social Duties , page 65 Politeness , page 70 Influence of Good Character , page 73 Family Government , page 76 Conversation , page 79 The Toilet or The Care of the Person , page 84 A Young Man 's Personal Appearance , page 86 Dress , page 88 Beauty , page 91 Sensible Helps to Beauty , page 95 How to Keep the Bloom and Grace of Youth , page 97 Form and Deformity , page 98 How to Determine a Perfect Human Figure , page 99 The History , Mystery , Benefits and Injuries of the Corset , page 101 Tight-Lacing , page 104 The Care of the Hair , page 107 How to Cure Pimples or Other Facial Eruptions , page 111 Black-Heads and Flesh Worms , page 112 Love , page 114 The Power and Peculiarities of Love , page 118 Amativeness or Connubial Love , page 122 Love and Common Sense , page 123 What Women Love in Men , page 126 What Men Love in Women , page 129 History of Marriage , page 132 Marriage , page 134 The Advantages of Wedlock , page 135 The Disadvantages of Celibacy , page 138 Old Maids , page 140 When and Whom to Marry , page 144 Choose Intellectually -- Love Afterward , page 148 Love-Spats , page 154 A Broken Heart , page 159 Former Customs and Peculiarities Among Men , page 162 Sensible Hints in Choosing a Partner , page 165 Safe Hints , page 170 Marriage Securities , page 174 Women Who Make the Best Wives , page 178 Adaptation , Conjugal Affection , and Fatal Errors , page 181 First Love , Desertion and Divorce , page 185 Flirting and Its Dangers , page 190 A Word to Maidens , page 192 Popping the Question , page 194 The Wedding , page 200 Advice to Newly Married Couples , page 201 Sexual Proprieties and Improprieties , page 206 How to Perpetuate the Honey-Moon , page 209 How to Be a Good Wife , page 210 How to Be a Good Husband , page 211 Cause of Family Troubles , page 217 Jealousy -- Its Cause and Cure , page 219 The Improvement of Offspring , page 222 Too Many Children , page 229 Small Families and the Improvement of the Race , page 232 The Generative Organs , page 234 The Female Sexual Organs , page 235 The Mysteries of the Formation of Life , page 238 Conception -- Its Limitations , page 240 Prenatal Influences , page 244 Vaginal Cleanliness , page 246 Impotence and Sterility , page 248 Producing Boys or Girls at Will , page 252 Abortion or Miscarriage , page 253 The Murder of Innocents , page 256 The Unwelcome Child , page 258 Health and Disease , page 263 Preparation for Maternity , page 266 Impregnation , page 269 Signs and Symptoms of Pregnancy , page 270 Diseases of Pregnancy , page 274 Morning Sickness , page 282 Relation of Husband and Wife During Pregnancy , page 283 A Private Word to the Expectant Mother , page 284 Shall Pregnant Women Work ? , page 285 Words for Young Mothers , page 286 How to Have Beautiful Children , page 288 Education of the Child in the Womb , page 292 How to Calculate the Time of Expected Labor , page 295 The Signs and Symptoms of Labor , page 297 Special Safeguards in Confinement , page 299 Where Did the Baby Come From ? , page 303 Child Bearing Without Pain , page 304 Solemn Lessons for Parents , page 312 Ten Health Rules for Babies Cut Death Rate in Two , page 314 The Care of New-Born Infants , page 315 Nursing , page 317 Infantile Convulsions , page 319 Feeding Infants , page 319 Pains and Ills in Nursing , page 321 Home Lessons in Nursing Sick Children , page 325 A Table for Feeding a Baby on Modified Milk , page 329 Nursing [ Intervals Table ] , page 329 Schedule for Feeding Healthy Infants During First Year [ Table ] , page 329 How to Keep a Baby Well , page 330 How to Preserve the Health and Life of Your Infant During Hot Weather , page 332 Infant Teething , page 336 Home Treatments for the Diseases of Infants and Children , page 338 Diseases of Women , page 348 Falling of the Womb , page 350 Menstruation , page 351 Celebrated Prescriptions for All Diseases and How to Use Them , page 354 How to Cure Apoplexy , Bad Breath and Quinsy , page 365 Sensible Rules for the Nurse , page 366 Longevity , page 367 How to Apply and Use Hot Water in All Diseases , page 368 Practical Rules for Bathing , page 371 All the Different Kinds of Baths and How to Prepare Them , page 372 Digestibility of Food , page 374 How to Cook for the Sick , page 375 Save the Girls , page 380 Save the Boys , page 390 The Inhumanities of Parents , page 396 Chastity and Purity of Chracter , page 400 Exciting the Passions in Children , page 404 Puberty , Virility , and Hygenic Laws , page 406 Our Secret Sins , page 409 Physical and Moral Degeneracy , page 414 Immorality , Disease , and Death , page 416 Poisonous Literature and Bad Pictures , page 421 Startling Sins , page 423 The Prostitution of Men , page 427 The Road to Shame , page 430 The Curse of Manhood , page 433 A Private Talk to Young Men , page 437 Remedies for the Social Evil , page 440 The Selfish Slaves of Doses of Disease and Death , page 441 Object Lessons of the Effects of Alcohol and Smoking , page 445 The Destructive Effects of Cigarette Smoking , page 449 The Dangerous Vices , page 451 Nocturnal Emissions , page 457 Lost Manhood Restored , page 459 Manhood Wrecked and Rescued , page 461 The Curse and Consequence of Secret Diseases , page 464 Animal Magnetism , page 470 How to Read Character , page 473 Twilight Sleep , page 479 Painless Childbirth , page 479 The Diseases of Women , page 480 Remedies for Diseases of Women , page 483 Alphabetical Index , page 486 * * * * * HE STUMBLETH NOT , BECAUSE HE SEETH THE LIGHT . [ Illustration : `` Search Me . Oh Thou Great Creator . '' ] * * * * * KNOWLEDGE IS SAFETY . 1 . The old maxim , that `` Knowledge is power , '' is a true one , but there is still a greater truth : `` KNOWLEDGE IS SAFETY . '' Safety amid physical ills that beset mankind , and safety amid the moral pitfalls that surround so many young people , is the great crying demand of the age . 2 . CRITICISM. -- This work , though plain and to some extent startling , is chaste , practical and to the point , and will be a boon and a blessing to thousands who consult its pages . The world is full of ignorance , and the ignorant will always criticise , because they live to suffer ills , for they know no better . New light is fast falling upon the dark corners , and the eyes of many are being opened . 3 . RESEARCHES OF SCIENCE. -- The researches of science in the past few years have thrown light on many facts relating to the physiology of man and woman , and the diseases to which they are subject , and consequently many reformations have taken place in the treatment and prevention of diseases peculiar to the sexes . 4 . LOCK AND KEY. -- Any information bearing upon the diseases of mankind should not be kept under lock and key . The physician is frequently called upon to speak in plain language to his patients upon some private and startling disease contracted on account of ignorance . The better plan , however , is to so educate and enlighten old and young upon the important subjects of health , so that the necessity to call a physician may occur less frequently . 5 . PROGRESSION. -- A large , respectable , though diminishing class in every community , maintain that nothing that relates exclusively to either sex should become the subject of popular medical instruction . But such an opinion is radically wrong ; ignorance is no more the mother of purity than it is of religion . Enlightenment can never work injustice to him who investigates . 6 . AN EXAMPLE. -- The men and women who study and practice medicine are not the worse , but the better for such knowledge ; so it would be to the community in general if all would be properly instructed on the laws of health which relate to the sexes . 7 . CRIME AND DEGRADATION. -- Had every person a sound understanding on the relation of the sexes , one of the most fertile sources of crime and degradation would be removed . Physicians know too well what sad consequences are constantly occurring from a lack of proper knowledge on these important subjects . 8 . A CONSISTENT CONSIDERATION. -- Let the reader of this work study its pages carefully and be able to give safe counsel and advice to others , and remember that purity of purpose and purity of character are the brightest jewels in the crown of immortality . [ Illustration : BEGINNING RIGHT . ] * * * * * THE BEGINNING OF LIFE . 1 . THE BEGINNING. -- There is a charm in opening manhood which has commended itself to the imagination in every age . The undefined hopes and promises of the future -- the dawning strength of intellect -- the vigorous flow of passion -- the very exchange of home ties and protected joys for free and manly pleasures , give to this period an interest and excitement unfelt , perhaps , at any other . 2 . THE GROWTH OF INDEPENDENCE. -- Hitherto life has been to boys , as to girls , a dependent existence -- a sucker from the parent growth -- a home discipline of authority and guidance and communicated impulse . But henceforth it is a transplanted growth of its own -- a new and free power of activity in which the mainspring is no longer authority or law from without , but principle or opinion within . The shoot which has been nourished under the shelter of the parent stem , and bent according to its inclination , is transferred to the open world , where of its own impulse and character it must take root , and grow into strength , or sink into weakness and vice . 3 . HOME TIES. -- The thought of home must excite a pang even in the first moments of freedom . Its glad shelter -- its kindly guidance -- its very restraints , how dear and tender must they seem in parting ! How brightly must they shine in the retrospect as the youth turns from them to the hardened and unfamiliar face of the world ! With what a sweet sadly-cheering pathos they must linger in the memory ! And then what chance and hazard is there in his newly-gotten freedom ! What instincts of warning in its very novelty and dim inexperience ! What possibilities of failure as well as of success in the unknown future as it stretches before him ! 4 . VICE OR VIRTUE. -- Certainly there is a grave importance as well as a pleasant charm in the beginning of life . There is awe as well as excitement in it when rightly viewed . The possibilities that lie in it of noble or ignoble work -- of happy self-sacrifice or ruinous self-indulgence -- the capacities in the right use of which it may rise to heights of beautiful virtue , in the abuse of which it may sink to the depths of debasing vice -- make the crisis one of fear as well as of hope , of sadness as well as of joy . 5 . SUCCESS OR FAILURE. -- It is wistful as well as pleasing to think of the young passing year by year into the world , and engaging with its duties , its interests , and temptations . Of the throng that struggle at the gates of entrance , how many may reach their anticipated goal ? Carry the mind forward a few years , and some have climbed the hills of difficulty and gained the eminence on which they wished to stand -- some , although they may not have done this , have kept their truth unhurt , their integrity unspoiled ; but others have turned back , or have perished by the way , or fallen in weakness of will , no more to rise again ; victims or their own sin . 6 . WARNING. -- As we place ourselves with the young at the opening gates of life , and think of the end from the beginning , it is a deep concern more than anything else that fills us . Words of earnest argument and warning counsel rather than of congratulation rise to our lips . 7 . MISTAKES ARE OFTEN FATAL. -- Begin well and the habit of doing well will become quite as easy as the habit of doing badly . `` Well begun is half ended , '' says the proverb : `` and a good beginning is half the battle . '' Many promising young men have irretrievably injured themselves by a first false step at the commencement of life ; while others of much less promising talents , have succeeded simply by beginning well , and going onward . The good , practical beginning is to a certain extent , a pledge , a promise , and an assurance of the ultimate prosperous issue . There is many a poor creature , now crawling through life , miserable himself and the cause of sorrow to others , who might have lifted up his head and prospered , if , instead of merely satisfying himself with resolutions of well-doing , he had actually gone to work and made a good , practical beginning . 8 . BEGIN AT THE RIGHT PLACE. -- Too many are , however , impatient of results . They are not satisfied to begin where their fathers did , but where they left off . They think to enjoy the fruits of industry without working for them . They can not wait for the results of labor and application , but forestall them by too early indulgence . * * * * * HEALTH A DUTY . Perhaps nothing will so much hasten the time when body and mind will both be adequately cared for , as a diffusion of the belief that the preservation of health is a duty . Few seem conscious that there is such a thing as physical morality . Men 's habitual words and acts imply that they are at liberty to treat their bodies as they please . Disorder entailed by disobedience to 