ON THE DEATH OF MRS. BURNITE WHO DIED FEBRUARY 2 , 1878 . Thou , my friend , in dust art sleeping , Closed thine eyes to all below ; Round thy grave kind friends are weeping , Ling'ring , loath to let thee go . Husband fond and children dear , Crushed and stricken by the blow , Banish ev'ry anxious fear , While we lay the lov 'd one low . For the angel 's trump shall sound , And the bands of death will break ; Then the pris'ner in this mound Shall to endless life awake . Then the spirit which is gone Will return and claim this dust , And this `` mortal will put on Immortality , '' we trust . When that glorious day shall dawn , And the bridegroom shall descend With a gorgeous angel throng , The glad nuptials to attend , Oh , the rapture of that meeting ! We of earth can never know Till we mingle in the greeting , Of our lov 'd , lost long ago . Let me like the righteous die , Let my last end be like his ; When I close , on earth , my eye , Let me wake in realms of bliss . STANZAS Read at the celebration of the seventy-second anniversary of the birthday of Joseph Steele , Dec. 13 , 1884 . Dear friends and neighbors , one and all , I 'm pleased to meet you here to-day ; 'Tis nice for neighbors thus to call , In such a social way . We meet to celebrate a day , Which people seldom see ; Time flies so rapidly away 'T is like a dream to me ; Since I , a lad with flaxen hair First met our friend , so gray ; We both were free from thought and care , But full of hope and play . Well Joseph Steele , we may be glad That we are here to-day , Although it makes me somewhat sad To think of friends away . Of all our schoolboy friends but few Alas ! can now be found , Not many but myself and you Are still above the ground . I count upon my fingers ' ends About the half , I know . Of all acquaintances and friends With whom we used to go ; To _Humphreys_ and _Montgomery_ To _Cochran_ and to _Dance_ , And some , who slip my memory , That used to make us prance , Whene'er we missed a lesson Or placed a crooked pin Just where some one would press on Enough to drive it in . O , it was fun alive , I vow , To see that fellow bounce And hear him howl and make a row And threaten he would trounce The boy that did the mischief , But that boy was seldom found , And so , he had to bear his grief And nurse the unseen wound ; But time and rhyme can never tell The half our funny pranks , And that we ever learned to spell , We ought to render thanks . Poor Dance ! I always pitied him For he was just from college , And never having learned to swim , Was drowned with all his knowledge . Of Cochran , I but little knew , He was a stranger here , 'Twas always said he would get blue , And acted very queer . Montgomery I knew right well , He was rather kind than cross , He taught the willing how to spell , And always would be boss . He wrote a very pretty hand And could command a school : His appetite got the command , And that he could not rule . One day he took a heavy slug Of something rather hot ; He took that something from a jug , And shortly he was not . Who `` took '' him , though , I never can Nor need I ever say ; But when the Lord doth take a man , 'T is seldom done that way . Poor Humphreys was a sort of crank ( Folks said his learning made him mad , ) But this I know , he always drank , And that will make the best man , bad . Excuse this rather long digression , My pen has carried me astray ; These schoolboy days make an impression From which 't is hard to get away . Then let me turn , and return too , For I have wandered from my text , -- Well , Mr. Steele , how do you do ? I hope you are not vexed . 'T is pleasant in our riper years To have our children come And bring their children -- little dears , They make it seem like home . An old man 's children are his crown , And you may well be proud When from your throne you just look down Upon this hopeful crowd . But now my neighbors dear , adieu ; `` The best of friends must part ; '' I 'll often kindly think of you , And treasure each one in my heart ; And if we never meet again On this poor frozen clod , O ! may we meet to part no more Around the throne of God . TO MARY . The following lines suggested by the beautiful story of the sisters , Martha and Mary of Bethany , ( Luke , 10:38-42 , ) were addressed to Miss Mary M. , of Wilmington , Del . In Bethany there dwelt a maid , And she was young and very fair ; 'Twas at her house that Jesus stayed , And loved to stay , when he was there . For Mary seated at his feet , In rapture hung upon His word : His language flow 'd in accent sweet , Such language mortal never heard . Her sister , cross in looks and word , ( The cares of life have this effect , ) Came and accused her , to her Lord , Of idleness and of neglect . `` Martha , Martha , '' He kindly said , Forego thy troubles and thy care -- One needful thing , a crust of bread , Is all I ask with thee to share . `` Mary hath chosen that good part , To hear my word and do my will , Which shall not from her trusting heart Be taken . '' It shall flourish still . Dear Mary , in this picture see Thy own , drawn by a master hand ; Name , face and character agree Drawn by Saint Luke , an artist grand . IMPROMPTU TO MRS. ANNA C. BAKER . Composed in the top of a cherry tree when the wind was blowing a gale . In fishing for men , I should judge from your looks You 've always had biters enough at your hooks . And whenever you dipp 'd your net in the tide You had little need to spread it out wide . To encircle so many you wish 'd for no more And like the old fishers sat down on the shore , Casting all the worthless and bad ones away -- Preserving the good and the true to this day . May the promising youth , I saw by your side All blooming and beaming , your hope and your pride , Be a pillar of state , so strong and so tall As to make you rejoice , that you made such a haul . LAMENT FOR THE YEAR 1887 . Read before the Jackson Hall Debating Society . My tale to-night is full of woe , I would that it were one of gladness ; I would not thrill your hearts , you know , With notes of grief or sadness . My friend and yours is near his end , His pulse is beating faint and low , 'Tis sad to lose so good a friend , His time has come and he must go . His life is ebbing fast away , His mortal race is almost run , He can not live another day , Nor see another rising sun . While watching round his dying bed , The tears we shed are tears of sorrow , We 'll close his eyes for he 'll be dead , And carried hence before to-morrow . His frame , so fragile now and weak , Was late the seat of vital power , But now , alas ! he can not speak , He 's growing weaker every hour . Old seventy-seven , your friend and mine , Has done his part by you and me , Then friends , let us unite and twine , A bright wreath to his memory . His reign has been a checker 'd reign , While some have suffered loss and wrong , We have no reason to complain , So come and join me in my song . He found me in the lowly vale , In poverty with robust health , And sweet contentment in the scale , Outweighing fame and pomp and wealth . Destroying war beneath his reign , Has drench 'd the earth with blood and tears , Which ever flow , but flow in vain , As they have done through countless years . When will the reign of peace begin ? When will the flood of human woe , That flows from folly , pride , and sin , Subside , and ever cease to flow ? God speed the time when war 's alarms , Will never more convulse the earth , And love and peace restore the charms Which dwelt in Eden at its birth . Old seventy-seven , again adieu , We 'll ne'er again each other see . I 've been a constant friend to you , As you have always been to me . `` Step down and out '' you 've had your day , Your young successor 's at the gate , Let him be crowned without delay , The royal stranger seventy-eight . VERSES Presented to my daughter with a watch and a locket with a picture of myself . Receive , my child , this gift of love , And wear it ever near thy heart , A pledge of union may it prove , Which time nor distance ne'er can part . I 've watched thy infant sleep , and prest My eager lips against thy brow , And lingered near thy couch , and blest , Thy tender form with many a vow . But O ! the rapture of that hour , None but a parent 's heart can know When first thy intellectual power Began the germ of life to show . I 've marked the progress of thy mind , And felt a thrill of joy and pride , To see thy youthful steps inclined To wisdom 's ways and virtue 's side . And when this fiery restless soul , Has chafed the thread of life away And reached , or high or low , the goal , And fought and won or lost the day , -- Then cherish this bright gift , my dear , And on those features kindly gaze , And bathe them with a filial tear , When I 'm beyond all blame or praise . LINES ON THE DEATH OF A YOUNG LADY OF WILMINGTON . Chill frost will nip the fairest flower ; The sweetest dream is soonest pass 'd ; The brightest morning in an hour , May be with storm clouds overcast . So Josephine in early bloom , Was blighted by death 's cruel blast , While weeping round her early tomb , We joy to know , she is not lost . Fond mother , dry that tearful tide , Your child will not return , you know : She 's waiting on the other side And where she is , you too may go . YOUTHFUL REMINISCENCES . Their schoolboy days have form 'd a theme , For nearly all the bards I know , But mine are like a fading dream Which happen 'd three score years ago . My memory is not the best , While some things I would fain forget Come like an uninvited guest , And often cause me much regret . I see the ghosts of murdered hours , As they flit past in countless throngs , They taunt me with their meager powers , And ridicule my senseless songs . 'T is useless now to speculate , Or grieve o'er that which might have been , My failures though they have been great , Are not the greatest I have seen . In school I was a quiet child , And gave my teachers little fash , But as I grew I grew more wild , And hasty as the lightning 's flash . Of study I was never fond , My school books gave me no delight , I patronized the nearest pond , To fish or swim by day or night . And when the frosts of winter came , And bound the streams in fetters tight , It gave me pleasure all the same To skate upon their bosom bright . I was athletic in my way And on my muscle went it strong , And stood to fight or ran to play , Regardless of the right or wrong . In wrestling I did much excel And lov 'd to douse a boasting fop , Nor cared I how or where we fell Provided I fell on the top . I loved my friends with all my might , My foes I hated just as strong , My friends were always in the right , My foes forever in the wrong . A sportsman early I became , A sort of second Daniel Boone , And bagg 'd my share of ev'ry game From cony , up or down , to coon . No tawny chieftain 's swarthy son , Was ever fonder of the chase , Than I was of my trusty gun , Although I had a paler face . I shot the squirrel near his den . The silly rabbit near her lair ; And captured ev'ry now and then , A pheasant in my cunning snare . And many things I think of here , Which time forbids me now to say , That happen 'd in my wild career , To me , since that eventful day When my fond mother wash 'd my face , And combed my flaxen hair , And started me in learning 's race , And breath 'd to heav'n a silent prayer , That I might grow to man 's estate , And cultivate my opening mind ; And not be rich or wise or great , But gentle , true and good and kind . My mother 's face , I see it yet , That thoughtful face , with eyes of blue , I trust I never shall forget Her words of counsel , sage and true . She left me , when she pass 'd away , More than a royal legacy , I would not for a monarch 's sway , Exchange the things she gave to me . She gave me naught of sordid wealth , But that which wealth can never be , Her iron frame and robust health , Are more than diadems to me . She left to me the azure sky , With all its countless orbs of light , Which wonder-strike the thoughtful eye , And beautify the dome of night . The deep blue sea from shore to shore , The boundless rays of solar light , The lightnings flash , the thunders roar -- I hold them all in my own right . And lastly that there be no lack , Of any good thing by her given , She left to me the shining track , Which led her footsteps up to heaven . STANZAS TO A LITTLE GIRL ON HER BIRTHDAY . My dear , the bard his greeting sends , And wishes you and all your friends , A happy birthday meeting . Let social pleasures crown the day , But while you chase dull care away , Remember time is fleeting . Then learn the lesson of this day , Another year has pass 'd away , Beyond our reach forever . And as the fleeting moments glide , They bear us on their noiseless tide , Like straws upon the river , Into that vast , unfathomed sea , Marked on the map `` eternity , '' With neither bound nor shore . There may we find some blissful isle Where basking in our Saviour 's smile , We 'll meet to part no more . TO MISS MARY BAIN . My cousin fair , dear Mary B , Excuse my long neglect I pray , And pardon too , the homely strain , In which I sing this rustic lay . My muse and I are sorted ill , I 'm in my yellow leaf and sere ; While she is young and ardent still And urges me to persevere . She reads to me the roll of fame , And presses me to join the throng , That surge and struggle for a name , Among the gifted sons of song . Of that vain stuff the world calls fame I 've had I think my ample share . At best 't is but a sounding name An idle puff of empty air . For 