THE IDEA OF GOD IN EARLY RELIGIONS by F. B. JEVONS , LITT.D . Professor of Philosophy in the University of Durham Cambridge : at the University Press 1913 First Edition , 1910 Reprinted 1911 , 1913 _With the exception of the coat of arms at the foot , the design on the title page is a reproduction of one used by the earliest known Cambridge printer , John Siberch , 1521_ PREFACE In _The Varieties of Religious Experience_ the late Professor William James has said ( p. 465 ) : 'The religious phenomenon , studied as an inner fact , and apart from ecclesiastical or theological complications , has shown itself to consist everywhere , and at all its stages , in the consciousness which individuals have of an intercourse between themselves and higher powers with which they feel themselves to be related . This intercourse is realised at the time as being both active and mutual . ' The book now before the reader deals with the religious phenomenon , studied as an inner fact , in the earlier stages of religion . By 'the Idea of God ' may be meant either the consciousness which individuals have of higher powers , with which they feel themselves to be related , or the words in which they , or others , seek to express that consciousness . Those words may be an expression , that is to say an interpretation or a misinterpretation , of that consciousness . But the words are not the consciousness : the feeling , without which the consciousness does not exist , may be absent when the words are spoken or heard . It is however through the words that we have to approach the feeling and the consciousness of others , and to determine whether and how far the feeling and the consciousness so approached are similar in all individuals everywhere and at all stages . F. B. JEVONS . HATFIELD HALL , DURHAM . _October , 1910_ CONTENTS PAGE BIBLIOGRAPHY ix I . INTRODUCTION 1 II . THE IDEA OF GOD IN MYTHOLOGY 30 III . THE IDEA OF GOD IN WORSHIP 60 IV . THE IDEA OF GOD IN PRAYER 103 V. THE IDEA AND BEING OF GOD 152 INDEX 167 BIBLIOGRAPHY Allen , Grant . The Evolution of the Idea of God . London , 1897 . Anthropology and the Classics . Oxford , 1908 . Bastian , A. Volks- und Menschenkunde . Berlin , 1888 . Bousset , W. What is Religion ? ( English Translation ) . London , 1907 . Crawley , A.E . The Idea of the Soul . London , 1909 . Fossey , C. La Magie Assyrienne . Paris , 1902 . Frazer , J.G . Early History of the Kingship . London , 1895 . -- -- The Golden Bough . London , 1900 . -- -- Psyche 's Task . London , 1909 . Gardner , P. Modernity and the Churches . London , 1909 . Hobhouse , L.T . Morals in Evolution . London , 1906 . Hffding , H. The Philosophy of Religion ( English Translation ) . London , 1906 . Hollis , A.C . The Masai . Oxford , 1905 . -- -- The Nandi . Oxford , 1909 . James , W. The Varieties of Religious Experience . London , 1902 . Jastrow , M. Jun . Study of Religion . London , 1901 . Jevons , F.B . Introduction to the History of Religion . London , 1896 . -- -- Religion in Evolution . London , 1906 . -- -- Study of Comparative Religion . London , 1908 . Lang , A . Magic and Religion . London , 1901 . -- -- The Making of Religion . London , 1898 . Mackenzie , W.D . The Final Faith . London , 1910 . Marett , R.R . The Threshold of Religion . London , 1909 . Mitchell , H.B . Talks on Religion . London , 1908 . Nassau , R.H. Fetichism in West Africa . London , 1904 . Parker , K.L . The Euahlayi Tribe . London , 1905 . Saussaye , P.D.C . de la . Religionsgeschichte . Freiburg i . B. , 1889 . Schaarschmidt , C. Die Religion . Leipzig , 1907 . Thompson , R.C . Semitic Magic . London , 1908 . Tisdall W. St C. Comparative Religion . London , 1909 . Transactions of the Third International Congress of the History of Religions . Oxford , 1908 . Tylor , E.B . Primitive Culture . London , 1873 . Westermarck , E. Origin and Development of Moral Ideas . London , 1906 . Wundt , W. Vlkerpsychologie . Leipzig , 1904-6 . I INTRODUCTION Every child that is born is born of a community and into a community , which existed before his birth and will continue to exist after his death . He learns to speak the language which the community spoke before he was born , and which the community will continue to speak after he has gone . In learning the language he acquires not only words but ideas ; and the words and ideas he acquires , the thoughts he thinks and the words in which he utters them , are those of the community from which he learnt them , which taught them before he was born and will go on teaching them after he is dead . He not only learns to speak the words and think the ideas , to reproduce the mode of thought , as he does the form of speech , of the circumambient community : he is taught and learns to act as those around him do -- as the community has done and will tend to do . The community -- the narrower community of the family , first , and , afterwards , the wider community to which the family belongs -- teaches him how he ought to speak , what he ought to think , and how he ought to act . The consciousness of the child reproduces the consciousness of the community to which he belongs -- the common consciousness , which existed before him and will continue to exist after him . The common consciousness is not only the source from which the individual gets his mode of speech , thought and action , but the court of appeal which decides what is fact . If a question is raised whether the result of a scientific experiment is what it is alleged by the original maker of the experiment to be , the appeal is to the common consciousness : any one who chooses to make the experiment in the way described will find the result to be of the kind alleged ; if everyone else , on experiment , finds it to be so , it is established as a fact of common consciousness ; if no one else finds it to be so , the alleged discovery is not a fact but an erroneous inference . Now , it is not merely with regard to external facts or facts apprehended through the senses , that the common consciousness is accepted as the court of appeal . The allegation may be that an emotion , of a specified kind -- alarm or fear , wonder or awe -- is , in specified circumstances , experienced as a fact of the common consciousness . Or a body of men may have a common purpose , or a common idea , as well as an emotion of , say , common alarm . If the purpose , idea or emotion , be common to them and experienced by all of them , it is a fact of their common consciousness . In this case , as in the case of any alleged but disputed discovery in science , the common consciousness is the court of appeal which decides the facts , and determines whether what an individual thinks he has discovered in his consciousness is really a fact of the common consciousness . The idea of powers superior to man , the emotion of awe or reverence , which goes with the idea , and the purpose of communicating with the power in question are facts , not peculiar to this or that individual consciousness , but facts of the common consciousness of all mankind . The child up to a certain age has no consciousness of self : the absence of self-consciousness is one of the charms of children . The child imitates its elders , who speak of him and to him by his name . He speaks of himself in the third person and not in the first person singular , and designates himself by his proper name and not by means of the personal pronoun 'I ' ; eventually the child acquires the use and to some extent learns the meaning of the first personal pronoun ; that is , if the language of the community to which he belongs has developed so far as to have produced such a pronoun . For there was a period in the evolution of speech when , as yet , a first personal pronoun had not been evolved ; and that , probably , for the simple reason that the idea which it denotes was as unknown to the community as it is to the child whose absence of self-consciousness is so pleasing . For a period , the length of which may have been millions of years , the common consciousness , the consciousness of the community , did not discover or discriminate , in language or in thought , the existence of the individual self . The importance of this consideration lies in its bearing upon the question , in what form the idea of powers superior to man disclosed itself in the common consciousness at that period . It is held by many students of the science of religion that fetishism preceded polytheism in the history of religion ; and it is undoubted that polytheism flourished at the expense of fetishism . But what is exactly the difference between fetishism and polytheism ? No one now any longer holds that a fetish is regarded , by believers in fetish , as a material object and nothing more : everyone recognises that the material object to which the term is applied is regarded as the habitation of a spiritual being . The material object in question is to the fetish what the idol of a god is to a god . If the material object , through which , or in which , the fetish-spirit manifests itself , bears no resemblance to human form , neither do the earliest stocks or blocks in which gods manifest themselves bear any resemblance to human form . Such unshaped stocks do not of themselves tell us whether they are fetishes or gods to their worshippers . The test by which the student of the science of religion determines the question is a very simple one : it is , who worships the object in question ? If the object is the private property of some individual , it is fetish ; if it is worshipped by the community as a whole , it , or rather the spirit which manifests itself therein , is a god of the community . The functions of the two beings differ accordingly : the god receives the prayers of the community and has power to grant them ; the fetish has power to grant the wishes of the individual who owns it . The consequence of this difference in function is that as the wishes of the individual may be inconsistent with the welfare of other members of the community ; as the fetish may be , and actually is , used to procure injury and death to other members of the community ; a fetish is anti-social and a danger to the community , whereas a god of the community is there expressly as a refuge and a help for the community . The fetish fulfils the desires of the individual , the self ; the god listens to the prayers of the community . Let us now return to that stage in the evolution of the community when , as yet , neither the language nor the thought of the community had discovered or discriminated the existence of the individual self . If at that stage there was in the common consciousness any idea , however dim or confused , of powers superior to man ; if that idea was accompanied or coloured by any emotion , whether of fear or awe or reverence ; if that emotion prompted action of any kind ; then , such powers were not conceived to be fetishes , for the function of a fetish is to fulfil the desires of an individual self ; and until the existence of the individual self is realised , there is no function for a fetish to perform . It may well be that the gradual development of self-consciousness , and the slow steps by which language helped to bring forth the idea of self , were from the first , and throughout , accompanied by the gradual development of the idea of fetishism . But the very development of the idea of a power which could fulfil the desires of self , as distinguished from , and often opposed to , the interests of the community , would stimulate the growth of the idea of a power whose special and particular function was to tend the interests of the community as a whole . Thus the idea of a fetish and the idea of a god could only persist on condition of becoming more and more inconsistent with , and contradictory of , one another . If the lines followed by the two ideas started from the same point , it was only to diverge the more , the further they were pursued . And the tendency of fetishism to disappear from the later and higher stages of religion is sufficient to show that it did not afford an adequate or satisfactory expression of the idea contained in the common consciousness of some power or being greater than man . That idea is constantly striving , throughout the history of religion , to find or give expression to itself ; it is constantly discovering that such expressions as it has found for itself do it wrong ; and it is constantly throwing , or in the process of throwing , such expressions aside . Fetishism was thrown aside sooner than polytheism : for it was an expression not only inadequate but contradictory to the idea that gave it birth . The emotions of fear and suspicion , with which the community regarded fetishes , were emotions different from the awe or reverence with which the community approached its gods . What practically provokes and stimulates the individual 's dawning consciousness of himself , or the community 's consciousness of the individual as in a way distinct from itself , is the dash between the desires , wishes , interests of the one , and the desires , wishes and interests of the other . But though the interests of the one are sometimes at variance with those of the other , still in some cases , also , the interests of the individual -- even though they be purely individual interests -- are not inconsistent with those of the community ; and in most cases they are identical with them -- the individual promotes his own interests by serving those of the community , and promotes those of the community by serving his own . In a word , the interests of the one are not so clearly and plainly cut off from those of the other , that the individual can always be condemned for seeking to gratify his self-interests or his own personal desires . That is presumably one reason why fetishism is so wide-spread and so long-lived in Western Africa , for instance : though fetishes may be used for anti-social purposes , they may be and are also used for purposes which if selfish are not , or are not felt to be , anti-social . The individual owner of a fetish does not feel that his ownership does or ought to cut him off from membership of the community . And so long as such feeling is common , so long an indecisive struggle between gods and fetishes continues . Now this same cause -- the impossibility of condemning the individual for seeking to promote his own interests -- will be found on examination to be operative elsewhere , viz . in magic . The relation of magic to religion is as much a matter of doubt and dispute as is that of fetishism to religion . And I propose to treat magic in much the same way as I have treated fetishism . The justification which I offer for so doing is to be found in the parallel or analogy that may be drawn between them . The distinction which comes to be drawn within the common consciousness between the self and the community manifests itself obviously in the fact that the interests and desires of the individual are felt to be different , and yet not to be different , from those of the community ; and so they are felt to be , yet not to be , condemnable from the point of view of the common consciousness . Now , this is precisely the judgment which is passed upon magic , wherever it is cultivated . It is condemnable , it is viewed with suspicion , fear and condemnation 