`` And , in heaven 's name , who are the public enemies ? '' exclaimed Dr. Leete . `` Are they France , England , Germany ? or Hunger , Cold , Nakedness ? In your day governments were accustomed , on the slightest international misunderstanding , to seize upon the bodies of citizens and deliver them over by hundreds of thousands to death and mutilation , wasting their treasures the while like water ; and all this oftenest for no imaginable profit to the victims . We have no wars now , and our governments no war powers ; but in order to protect every citizen against hunger , cold , and nakedness , and provide for all his physical and mental needs , the function is assumed of directing his industry for a term of years . Not even for the best ends would men now allow their governments such powers as were then used for the most maleficent . '' `` Leaving comparisons aside , '' I said , `` the demagoguery and corruption of our public men would have been considered , in my day , insuperable objections to government assuming charge of the national industries . '' `` No doubt you were right , '' rejoined Dr. Leete ; `` but all that is changed . We have no parties or politicians . '' `` Human nature itself must have changed very much . '' `` Not at all ; but the conditions of human life have changed , and with them the motives of human action . The organisation of society with you was such that officials were under a constant temptation to misuse their power for the private profit of themselves or others . Now society is so constituted that there is absolutely no way in which an official could possibly make any profit for himself or anyone else by a misuse of his power . '' _III. -- Labour 's New Rgime_ '' But you have not yet told me how you have settled the labour problem . '' `` When the nation became the sole employer , '' said Dr. Leete , `` all the citizens became employees , to be distributed according to the needs of industry . '' `` That is , you have simply applied the principle of universal military service , as understood in our day , to the labour question . '' `` Yes . Nevertheless , to speak of service being compulsory would be a weak way to state its absolute inevitableness . If it were conceivable that a man could escape it , he would be left with no possible way to provide for his existence . The period of industrial service is twenty-four years , beginning at the close of the course of education at twenty-one , and terminating at forty-five . After forty-five , the citizen is liable to special calls for labour emergencies till fifty-five . '' `` But what administrative talent can be equal to determining wisely what trade or business every individual in a great nation shall pursue ? '' `` The administration has nothing to do with determining that point . Every man determines it for himself in accordance with his natural aptitude , the utmost pains being taken to enable him to find out what his natural aptitude really is . Usually , long before he is mustered into service , a young man has found out the pursuit he wants to follow , has acquired a great deal of knowledge about it , and is awaiting impatiently the time when he can enlist in its ranks . '' `` Surely , it can hardly be that the number of volunteers for any trade is exactly the number needed ? '' `` The supply is always expected to equal fully the demand . The rate of volunteering is closely watched . It is the business of the administration to equalise the attractions of the trades , so that the lightest trades have the longest hours , while an arduous trade , such as mining , has very short hours . '' `` How is the class of common labourers recruited ? '' `` It is the grade to which all new recruits belong for the first three years . If a man were so stupid as to have no choice as to occupation , he would simply remain a common labourer . '' `` Having once elected and entered on a trade or occupation , I suppose he has to stick to it the rest of his life ? '' `` Not necessarily , '' replied Dr. Leete ; `` while frequent and merely capricious changes of occupation are net permitted , every worker is allowed , of course under regulations and in accordance with the exigencies of the service , to volunteer for another industry which he thinks would suit him better than his first choice . It is only the poorer sort of workmen who desire to change . Of course , transfers or discharges are always given when health demands them . '' `` How are the brain-workers selected ? That must require a very delicate sort of sifting process ? '' `` So it does , the most delicate possible test ; so we leave the question whether a man shall be a brain or handworker entirely to him to settle . At the end of the three years of common labour , if a man feels he can do better work with his brain than his muscles , the schools of technology , medicine , art , music , histrionics , and higher liberal learning are open to him without condition . But anyone without the special aptitude would find it easier to do double hours at his trade than try to keep up with the classes . This opportunity for a professional training remains open to every man till the age of thirty . '' _IV. -- The New Plan_ Dr. and Mrs. Leete were startled to learn I had been all over the city alone . `` You must have seen a good many new things , '' said Mrs. Leete , as we sat down to table . `` I think what surprised me as much as anything was not to find any stores in Washington Street , or any banks of State . What have you done with the merchants and bankers ? '' `` Their functions are obsolete in the modern world . There is neither selling nor buying , and we have no money . As soon as the nation became the producer of all sorts of commodities , there was no need of exchanges between individuals . Everything was procurable from one source , and that only . A system of direct distribution from the national storehouses took the place of trade , and for this money was unnecessary . '' `` How is this distribution managed ? '' `` A credit , corresponding to his share of the annual product of the nation , is given to every citizen on the public books at the beginning of each year , and a credit-card issued him , with which he procures at the public stores , found in every community , whatever he desires , whenever he desires it . `` You observe , '' he pursued , as I was curiously examining the piece of pasteboard he gave me , `` that this credit-card is issued for a certain number of dollars . We keep the old term dollars as an algebraical symbol for comparing the values of products with one another . All are priced in dollars and cents , just as in your day . The value of what I procure on this card is checked off by the clerk , who pricks out of these tiers of squares the price of what I order . '' `` If you wanted to buy something of your neighbour , could you transfer part of your credit to him ? '' `` Our neighbours have nothing to sell us ; but , in any event , one 's credit would not be transferable , being strictly personal . Before the nation could even think of honouring any such transfer , it would be bound to inquire into its equity . It would have been reason enough , had there been no other , for abolishing money , that its possession was no indication of rightful title to it . In the hands of the man who had stolen it , it was as good as if earned by industry . `` People nowadays interchange gifts , but buying and selling is considered absolutely inconsistent with the mutual benevolence and disinterestedness which should prevail between citizens . According to our ideas , the practice of buying and selling is essentially anti-social in all its tendencies . It is an education in self-seeking at the expense of others , and no society whose citizens are trained in such a school can possibly rise above a very low grade of civilisation . '' `` What if you have to spend more than your card allows in any one year ? '' `` If extraordinary expenses should exhaust it we can obtain a limited advance on next year 's credit at a heavy discount . If a man showed himself a reckless spendthrift he would receive his allowance monthly or weekly instead of yearly , or , if necessary , not be permitted to handle it at all . '' `` If you do n't spend your allowance , I suppose it accumulates ? '' `` That is also permitted to a certain extent when a special outlay is anticipated . But unless notice is given , it is presumed that the citizen who does not fully expend his credit did not have occasion to do so , and the balance is turned into the general surplus . '' `` Such a system does not encourage saving habits . '' `` It is not intended to . No man has care for the morrow , either for himself or his children , for the nation guarantees the nurture , education , and maintenance of every citizen from the cradle to the grave . '' `` But what inducement can a man have to put forth his best endeavours when , however much or little he accomplishes , his income remains the same ? '' `` Does it then really seem to you that human nature is insensible to any motives save fear of want and love of luxury , that you expect security and equality of livelihood to leave men without incentives to effort ? Your contemporaries did not really think so . When it was a question of the grandest class of efforts , the most absolute self-devotion , they depended on quite other motives . Not higher wages , but honour and the hope of men 's gratitude , patriotism , and the inspiration of duty were the motives they set before their soldiers . Now that industry of whatever sort is no longer self-service , but service of the nation , patriotism -- passion for humanity -- impels the worker as in your day it did the soldier . '' During the next few days I investigated many other of the social and domestic arrangements of Bostonians of the twenty-first century , and from what I saw myself and heard from my hosts , I gained some tolerably clear ideas of modern organisation , and the system of distribution . But it seemed to me that the system of production and the direction of the industrial army must be wonderfully complex and difficult . `` I assure you that it is nothing of the kind , '' said Dr. Leete . `` The entire field of production and constructive industry is divided into ten great departments , each representing a group of allied industries , each industry being in turn represented by a subordinate bureau , which has a complete record of the plant and force under its control , of the present output , and means of increasing it . The estimates of the distributive department , after adoption by the administration , are sent as mandates to the ten great departments , which allot them to the subordinate bureaus representing the particular industries , and these set the men at work . Each bureau is responsible for the task given it . Even if in the hands of the consumer an article turns out unfit , the system enables the fault to be traced back to the original workman . After the necessary contingents of labour have been detailed for the various industries , the amount of labour left for other employment is expended in creating fixed capital , such as buildings , machinery , engineering works , and so forth . '' That evening and the next following I sat up late talking with Dr. Leete of the changes of the last hundred and thirteen years ; but on the Sunday , my first in the twenty-first century , I fell into a state of profound depression , accentuated by consideration of the vast moral gap between the century to which I belonged and that in which I found myself . There was no place anywhere for me . I was neither dead nor properly alive . Now I realised the mingled pity , curiosity , and aversion which I , as a representative of an abhorred epoch , must excite in all around me ; but that Edith Leete must share their feelings was more than I could bear . Towards nightfall I entered the subterranean chamber and sat down there , feeling utterly alone . Presently Edith stood in the door . `` Has it never occurred to you , '' I said , `` that my position is more utterly alone than any human being 's ever was before ? '' `` Oh , you must not talk in that way . You do n't know how it makes me feel to see you so forlorn , '' she exclaimed . I caught her hands in my own . `` Are you so blind as not to see why such kindness as you have all shown me is not enough to make me happy ? '' `` Are you sure it is not you who are blind ? '' she said . That was all ; but it was enough , for it told me that this radiant daughter of a golden age had bestowed upon me not alone her pity , but her love . And now I first knew what was perhaps the strangest feature of my strange experience : Edith was the great grand-daughter of no other than my lost love Edith Bartlett . JEREMY BENTHAM Principles of Morals and Legislation Jeremy Bentham , the son and grandson of attorneys , was born in London on February 15 , 1748 . He was called to the Bar , but did not practise . His fame rests on his work in the fields of jurisprudence , political science , and ethics . He is accounted the founder of the `` utilitarian '' school of philosophy , of which the theory is that the production of the `` greatest happiness of the greatest number '' is the criterion of morals and the aim of politics . Dying on June 6 , 1832 , his body , in accordance with his own wishes , was dissected , and his skeleton dressed in his customary garb and preserved in the University College , London . Bentham 's failure at the Bar caused him no small disappointment , and it was not until the publication of a `` Fragment on Government '' in 1776 that he felt himself redeemed with public opinion . The `` Principles of Morals and Legislation '' was first published in 1789 , but was actually in print nine years earlier . It was primarily intended as the introductory volume of a complete work designed to cover the whole field of the principles of legislation -- principles which , as we have seen , were based on that doctrine of utility which the author regarded as equally the basis of ethics . _I. -- Calculation of Pleasures and Pains_ Mankind is governed by pain and pleasure . Utility is that property in anything which tends to produce happiness in the party concerned , whether an individual or a community . The principle of utility makes utility the criterion for approval or disapproval of every kind of action . An act which conforms to this principle is one which ought to be done , or is not one which ought not to be done ; is right , or , at least , not wrong . There is no other criterion possible which can not ultimately be reduced to the personal sentiment of the individual . The sources or sanctions of pleasure and pain are four -- the physical , in the ordinary course of nature ; political , officially imposed ; moral or popular , imposed by public opinion ; and religion . Pains under the first head are calamities ; under the other three are punishments . Under the first three heads , they concern the present life only . The second , third , and the fourth , as concerns this life , operate through the first ; but the first operates independently of the others . Pleasures and pains , then , are the instruments with which the legislator has to work ; he must , therefore , be able to gauge their relative values . These depend primarily and simply on four 