Team LOVE AT SECOND SIGHT by ADA LEVERSON First published London , 1916 ( Book Three of THE LITTLE OTTLEYS ) TO TACITUS CHAPTER I An appalling crash , piercing shrieks , a loud , unequal quarrel on a staircase , the sharp bang of a door ... . Edith started up from her restful corner on the blue sofa by the fire , where she had been thinking about her guest , and rushed to the door . 'Archie -- Archie ! Come here directly ! What 's that noise ? ' A boy of ten came calmly into the room . 'It was n't me that made the noise , ' he said , 'it was Madame Frabelle . ' His mother looked at him . He was a handsome , fair boy with clear grey eyes that looked you straight in the face without telling you anything at all , long eyelashes that softened , but gave a sly humour to his glance , a round face , a very large forehead , and smooth straw-coloured hair . Already at this early age he had the expressionless reserve of the public school where he was to be sent , with something of the suave superiority of the university for which he was intended . Edith thought he inherited both of these traits from her . * * * * * She gazed at him , wondering , as she had often wondered , at the impossibility of guessing , even vaguely , what was really going on behind that large brow . And he looked back observantly , but not expressively , at her . She was a slim , fair , pretty woman , with more vividness and character than usually goes with her type . Like the boy , she had long-lashed grey eyes , and _blond-cendre_ hair : her mouth and chin were of the Burne-Jones order , and her charm , which was great but unintentional , and generally unconscious , appealed partly to the senses and partly to the intellect . She was essentially not one of those women who irritate all their own sex by their power ( and still more by their fixed determination ) to attract men ; she was really and unusually indifferent to general admiration . Still , that she was not a cold woman , not incapable of passionate feeling , was obvious to any physiognomist ; the fully curved lips showed her generous and pleasure-loving temperament , while the softly glancing , intelligent , smiling eyes spoke fastidiousness and discrimination . Her voice was low and soft , with a vibrating sound in it , and she laughed often and easily , being very ready to see and enjoy the amusing side of life . But observation and emotion alike were instinctively veiled by a quiet , reposeful manner , so that she made herself further popular by appearing retiring . Edith Ottley might so easily have been the centre of any group , and yet -- she was not ! Women were grateful to her , and in return admitted that she was pretty , unaffected and charming . Today she was dressed very simply in dark blue and might have passed for Archie 's elder sister . 'It is n't anything . It was n't my fault . It was her fault . Madame Frabelle said _she_ would teach me to take away her mandolin and use it for a cricket bat . She need n't teach me ; I know already . ' 'Now , Archie , you know perfectly well you 've no right to go into her room when she is n't there . ' 'How can I go in when she is there ? ... She wo n't let me . Besides , I do n't want to . ' 'It is n't nice of you ; you ought not to go into her room without her permission . ' 'It is n't her room ; it 's your room . At least , it 's the spare room . ' 'Have you done any harm to the mandolin ? ' He paused a little , as he often did before answering , as if in absence of mind , and then said , as though starting up from a reverie : 'Er -- no . No harm . ' 'Well , what have you done ? ' 'I can mend it , ' he answered . 'Madame Frabelle has been very kind to you , Archie . I 'm sorry you 're not behaving nicely to a guest in your mother 's house . It is n't the act of a gentleman . ' 'Oh . Well , there are a great many things in her room , Mother ; some of them are rather jolly . ' 'Go and say you 're sorry , Archie . And you must n't do it again . ' 'Will it be the act of a gentleman to say I 'm sorry ? It 'll be the act of a story-teller , you know . ' 'What ! Are n't you sorry to have bothered her ? ' 'I 'm sorry she found it out , ' he said , as he turned to the door . 'These perpetual scenes and quarrels between my son and my guest are most painful to me , ' Edith said , with assumed solemnity . He looked grave . 'Well , she need n't have quarrelled . ' 'But is n't she very kind to you ? ' 'Yes , she is n't bad sometimes . I like it when she tells me lies about what her husband used to do -- I mean stories . She 's not a bad sort ... . Is she a homeless refugette , Mother ? ' 'Not exactly that . She 's a widow , and she 's staying with us , and we must be nice to her . Now , you wo n't forget again , will you ? ' 'Right . But I can mend it . ' 'I think I 'd better go up and see her , ' said Edith . Archie politely opened the door for his mother . 'I should n't , if I were you , ' he said . Edith slowly went back to the fire . 'Well , I 'll leave her a little while , perhaps . Now do go and do something useful . ' 'What , useful ? Gracious ! I have n't got much more of my holidays , Mother . ' 'That 's no reason why you should spend your time in worrying everybody , and smashing the musical instruments of guests that are under your roof . ' He looked up at the ceiling and smiled , as if pleased at this way of putting it . 'I suppose she 's very glad to have a roof to her mouth -- I mean to her head , ' he hurriedly corrected . 'But , Mother , she is n't poor . She has an amber necklace . Besides , she gave Dilly sixpence the other day for not being frightened of a cow . If she can afford to give a little girl sixpence for every animal she says she is n't afraid of ! ' ... 'That only proves she 's kind . And I did n't say she was poor ; that 's not the point . We must be nice and considerate to anyone staying with us -- do n't you see ? ' He became absent-minded again for a minute . 'Well , I should n't be surprised if she 'll be able to use it again , ' he said consolingly -- 'the mandolin , I mean . Besides , what 's the good of it anyway ? I say , Mother , are all foreigners bad-tempered ? ' 'Madame Frabelle is not a foreigner . ' 'I never said she was . But her husband was . He used to get into frightful rages with her sometimes . She says he was a noble fellow . She liked him awfully , but she says he never understood her . Do you suppose she talked English to him ? ' 'That 's enough , Archie . Go and find something to do . ' As he went out he turned round again and said : 'Does father like her ? ' 'Why , yes , of course he does . ' 'How funny ! ' said Archie . 'Well , I 'll say I 'm sorry ... when I see her again . ' Edith kissed him , a proceeding that he bore heroically . He was kissable , but she seldom gave way to the temptation . Then she went back to the sofa . She wanted to go on thinking about that mystery , her guest . CHAPTER II Madame Frabelle had arrived about a fortnight ago , with a letter of introduction from Lady Conroy . Lady Conroy herself was a vague , amiable Irishwoman , with a very large family of children . She and Edith , who knew each other slightly before , had grown intimate when they met , the previous summer , at a French watering-place . The letter asked Edith , with urgent inconsequence , to be kind to Madame Frabelle , of whom Lady Conroy said nothing except that she was of good family -- she had been a Miss Eglantine Pollard -- and was the widow of a well-to-do French wine merchant . She was described as a clever , interesting woman who wished to study English life in her native land . It did not surprise Lady Conroy in the least that an Englishwoman should wish to study English in England ; but she was a woman who was never surprised at anything except the obvious and the inevitable . Edith had not had the faintest idea of asking Madame Frabelle to stay at her very small house in Sloane Street , for which invitation , indeed , there seemed no possible need or occasion . Yet she found herself asking her visitor to stay for a few days until a house or a hotel should be found ; and Bruce , who detested guests in the house , seconded the invitation with warmth and enthusiasm . As Bruce was a subconscious snob , he may have been slightly influenced by the letter from Lady Conroy , who was the wife of an unprominent Cabinet Minister and , in a casual way , rather _grande dame_ , if not exactly smart . But this consideration could not weigh with Edith , and its effect on Bruce must have long passed away . Madame Frabelle accepted the invitation as a matter of course , made use of it as a matter of convenience , and had remained ever since , showing no sign of leaving . Edith was deeply interested in her . * * * * * And Bruce was more genuinely impressed and unconsciously bored by Madame Frabelle than by any woman he had ever met . Yet she was not at all extraordinary . She was a tall woman of about fifty , well bred without being distinguished , who could never have been handsome but was graceful , dignified , and pleasing . She was neither dark nor fair . She had a broad , good-natured face , and a pale , clear complexion . She was inclined to be fat ; not locally , in the manner of a pincushion , but with the generally diffused plumpness described in shops as stock size . She was not the sort of modern woman of fifty , with a thin figure and a good deal of rouge , who looks young from the back when dancing or walking , and talks volubly and confidentially of her young men . She had , of course , nothing of the middle-aged woman of the past , who at her age would have been definitely on the shelf , doing wool-work or collecting recipes there . Nor did she resemble the strong-minded type in perpetual tailor-made clothes , with short grey hair and eye-glasses , who belongs to clubs and talks chiefly of the franchise . Madame Frabelle was soft , womanly , amiable , yet extremely outspoken , very firm , and inclined to lay down the law . She was certainly charming , as Bruce and Edith agreed every day ( even now , when they were beginning to wonder when she was going away ! ) . She had an extraordinary amount of personal magnetism , since she convinced both the Ottleys , as she had convinced Lady Conroy , that she was wonderfully clever : in fact , that she knew everything . A fortnight had passed , and Edith was beginning to grow doubtful . Was she so clever ? Did she know everything ? Did she know anything at all ? Long arguments , that grew quite heated and excited at luncheon or dinner , about the origin of a word , the author of a book , and various debatable questions of the kind , invariably ended , after reference to a dictionary or an encyclopaedia , in Madame Frabelle proving herself , with an air of triumph , to be completely and entirely wrong . She was as generally positive as she was fatally mistaken . Yet so intense a belief had she in her intuition as well as in her own inaccurate information that her hypnotised hosts were growing daily more and more under her thumb . She took it for granted that everyone would take her for granted -- and everyone did . Was all this agreeable or otherwise ? Edith thought it must be , or how could they bear it at all ? If it had not been extremely pleasant it would have been simply impossible . The fair , gentle , pretty Edith , who was more subtle than she appeared on the surface , while apparently indolent , had a very active brain . Madame Frabelle caused her to use it more than she had ever done before . Edith was intensely curious and until she understood her visitor she could not rest satisfied . She made her a psychological study . For example , here was a curious little point . Madame Frabelle did not look young for her age , nor did she seem in the least inclined to wish to be admired , nor ever to have been a flirt . The word 'fast ' , for example , would have been quite grotesque as associated with her , though she was by no means prudish as to subjects of conversation , nor prim in the middle-class way . Yet somehow it would not have seemed incongruous or surprising if one had found out that there was even now some romance in her life . But , doubtless , the most striking thing about her -- and what made her popular -- was her intense interest in other people . It went so far as to reach the very verge of being interference ; but she was so pleasant that one could scarcely resent it either as curiosity or intrusion . Since she had stayed with the Ottleys , she appeared to think of no-one and nothing else in the world . One would think that no-one else existed for her . And , after all , such extreme interest is flattering . Bruce , Archie , Edith , even Dilly 's nurse , all had , in her , an audience : interested , absorbed , enchanted . Who could help enjoying it ? * * * * * Edith was still thinking about Madame Frabelle when a few minutes later , Bruce came in . Bruce also was fair , besides being tall , good-looking and well built . Known by their friends for some reason as the little Ottleys , these two were a rather fine-looking pair , and ( at a casual glance ) admirably suited to one another . They appeared to be exactly like thousands of other English married couples of the upper middle class between thirty and forty ; he looked as manly ( through being sunburnt from knocking a little ball over the links ) as if he habitually went tiger-shooting ; but , though not without charm , he had much less distinction than his wife . Most people smiled when Bruce 's name was mentioned , and it was usual for his intimates to clap him on the back and call him a silly ass , which proves he was not unpopular . On the other hand , Edith was described as a very pretty woman , or a nice little thing , and by the more discriminating , jolly clever when you know her , and do n't you forget it . When Bruce told his wife that no-one had ever regretted consulting him on a difficult , secret , and delicate matter , Edith had said she was quite sure they had n't . Perhaps she thought no-one had ever regretted consulting him on such a subject , simply because no-one had ever tried . 'Oh , please do n't move , Edith , ' he said , in the tone which means , 'Oh , please do move . ' 'I like to see you comfortable . ' There was something in his manner that made her feel apologetic , and she changed her position with the feeling of guilt about nothing , and a tinge 