But fate , propitious to me , had dried up his ink-bottle ; the expense of replenishing it would have broken his heart of itself ; and the attorney 's announcement to me was , that the will , after blinding the solicitor to the treasury and three of his clerks , was pronounced to be altogether illegible . The fact that I was the nearest of kin got into the newspapers ; and in my first drive down St. James 's , I had the pleasure of discovering that I had cured a vast number of my friends of their calamitous defect of vision . But if the `` post equitem sedet atra cura '' was the maxim in the days of Augustus , the man who drives the slower cabriolet in the days of George the Fourth , can not expect to escape . The `` hour too many '' overtook me in the first week . On one memorable evening I saw it coming , just as I turned the corner of Piccadilly ; fair flight was hopeless , and I took refuge in that snug asylum on the right hand of St. James 's Street , which has since expanded into a palace . I stoutly battled the foe , for I '' took no note of time '' during the next day and night ; and when at last I walked forth into the air , I found that I had relieved myself of the burden of three-fourths of my reversion . A weak mind on such an occasion would have cursed the cards , and talked of taking care of the fragment of his property ; but mine was of the higher order , and I determined on revenge . I had my revenge , and saw my winners ruined . They had their consolation , and at the close of a six months ' campaign saw me walk into the streets a beggar . I grew desperate , and was voted dangerous . I realized the charge by fastening on a noble lord who had been one of the most adroit in pigeoning me . His life was `` too valuable to his country , '' or himself , to allow him to meet a fellow whose life was of no use to any living thing ; and through patriotism and the fear of being shot , he kept out of my way . I raged , threatened to post his lordship , and was in the very act of writing out the form of the placard declaring the noble heir of the noble house of -- -- a cheat and a scoundrel , when by the twopenny-post I received a notice from the Horse Guards that I was on that day to appear in the Gazette as an ensign in his majesty 's -- -- regiment , then serving in the Peninsula , with orders to join without delay . This was enough from his lordship , and was certainly better for me than running the chance of damages in the King 's Bench , for provoking his majesty 's subjects to a breach of the peace . I was gazetted , tried on my uniform before the mirror , entirely approved of my appearance , and wrote my last letter to my last flirt . The Portsmouth mail was to start at eight . I had an hour to spare , and sallied into the street . I met an honest-faced old acquaintance as much at a loss as myself to slay the hour . We were driven by a shower into shelter . The rattle of dice was heard within a green-baize-covered door . We could not stay for ever shivering on the outside . Fortune favoured me ; in half an hour I was master of a thousand pounds ; it would have been obvious folly and ingratitude to check the torrent of success for the paltry prospects of an ensigncy . I played on , and won on . The clock struck eight . I will own that I trembled as the first sound caught my ear . But whether nervous or not , from that instant the torrent was checked . The loss and gain became alternate . Wine was brought in ; I played in furious scorn of consequences . I saw the board covered with gold . I swept it into my stake ; I soon saw my stake reduced to nothing . My eyes were dazzled , my hand shook , my brain was on fire , I sang , danced , roared with exultation or despair . How the night closed , I know not ; but I found myself at last in a narrow room , surrounded with squalidness , its only light from a high-barred window , and its only furniture the wooden tressel on which I lay , fierce , weary , and feverish , as if I lay on the rack . From this couch of the desperate , I was carried into the presence of a magistrate , to hear that in the _mle_ of the night before , I had in my rage charged my honest-faced acquaintance with palpable cheating ; and having made good my charge by shewing the loaded dice in his hand , had knocked him down with a violence that made his recovery more than doubtful . He had seen my name in the Gazette , and had watched me for the express purpose of final plunder . The wretch died . I was brought to trial , found guilty of manslaughter , and sentenced to seven years ' expatriation . Fortunate sentence ! On my arrival in New South Wales , as I was found a perfect gentleman , and fit for nothing , there was no resource but to make me try the labour of my hands . Fortunate labour ! From six at morning till six at night , I had the spade or the plough in my hands . I dragged carts , I delved rocks , I hewed trees ; I had not a moment to spare . The appetite that once grew languid over venison , now felt the exquisite delight of junk beef . The thirst that scorned champagne was now enraptured with spring water . The sleep that had left me many a night tossing within-side the curtains of a hundred-and-fifty-guinea Parisian bed , now came on the roughest piece of turf , and made the planks of my cabin softer than down . I can now run as fast as one of my Newmarket stud , pull down a buffalo , and catch a kangaroo by the tail in fair field . Health , vigour , appetite , and activity , are my superabundance now . I have every thing but time . My banishment expires to-morrow ; but I shall never recross the sea . This is my country . Since I set my foot upon its shore I have never had a moment to yawn . In this land of real and substantial life , the spectre that haunted my joyless days dares not be seen -- the `` hour too many '' is no more . _The Forget-Me-Not_ . * * * * * MANNERS & CUSTOMS OF ALL NATIONS . ( _For the Mirror_ . ) SELLING MEAT AMONG THE ANCIENT ROMANS , & c. It was the custom for the buyer to shut his eyes , and the seller to hold up some of his fingers ; if the buyer guessed aright , how many it was the other held up , he was to fix the price ; if he mistook , the seller was to fix it . These classic _blind-bargains_ would not suit the Londonbutchers . This custom was abolished by Apronius , the prefect of Rome ; who in lieu thereof , introduced the method of selling by weight . Among the ancient Romans there were three kinds of established butchers , viz . two colleges or companies , composed each of a certain number of citizens , whose office was to furnish the city with the necessary cattle , and to take care of preparing and vending their flesh . One of these communities was at first confined to the providing of hogs , whence they were called _suarii_ ; and the other two were charged with cattle , especially oxen , whence they were called _pecuarii_ , or _boarii_ . Under each of these was a subordinate class , whose office was to kill , prepare , & c. called _lanii_ , and sometimes _carnifices_ . Two English poets ( Swift and Gay ) have been rather severe towards the London butchers , the former says , -- `` Hence he learnt the _Butcher's_ guile , How to cut your throat , and smile ; Like a _butcher_ doom 'd for life , In his mouth to wear his knife . '' The latter , -- -- -- '' resign the way , To shun the surly _butcher's_ greasy tray : _Butchers_ , whose hands are died with blood 's foul stain , And always foremost in the hangman 's train . '' The butchers ' company was not incorporated until the 3rd year of King James I. when they were made a _Corporation_ , by the name of master , wardens and commonalty of the art and mystery of butchers ; yet the fraternity is ancient . Stowe says , `` In the 3rd of Richard II . motion was made that no butcher should kill any flesh within London , but at Knightsbridge , or such like distant place from the walls of the citie . '' P.T.W . * * * * * STUMBLING AT THE THRESHOLD . The phrase , `` to stumble at the threshold , '' originated in the circumstance , that the old thresholds , or steps under the door , were like the hearths , raised a little , so that a person might stumble over them , unless proper care were taken . A very whimsical reason for this practice is given in a curious little tract by Sir Balthazar Gerbier , entitled , `` Council and Advice to all Builders , '' 1663 , in these words : -- '' A good surveyor shuns also the ordering of doores with stumbling thresholds , though our forefathers affected them , perchance to perpetuate the antient custome of bridegroomes , when formerly at their return from church they did use to lift up their bride , and to knock her head against that of the doore , for a remembrance that she was not to pass the threshold of her house without leave . '' W.G.C . * * * * * CHINESE PHYSICIANS . The charitable dispensation of medicines by the Chinese , is well deserving notice . They have a stone which is ten cubits high , erected in the public squares of their cities ; whereon is engraved the name of all sorts of medicines , with the price of each , and when the poor stand in need of relief from physic , they go to the treasury to receive the price each medicine is rated at . The physicians of China have only to feel the arm of their patient in three places , and to observe the rate of the pulse , to form an opinion on the cause , nature , danger , and duration of the malady . Without the patient speaking at all , they can tell infallibly what part is attacked with disease , whether the brain , the heart , the liver , the lungs , the intestines , the stomach , the flesh , the bones , and so on . As they are both physicians and apothecaries , and prepare their own medicines , they are paid only when they effect a cure . If the same rule were introduced with us , I fear we should have fewer physicians . * * * * * THE TOPOGRAPHER BOX HILL . ( _For the Mirror_ . ) This celebrated eminence is situated in the north range of chalk hills , beginning near Farnham , in Surrey , and extending from thence to Folkstone , in Kent . Camden calls it _White Hill_ , from its chalky soil ; but Box Hill is its true and ancient name . The box-tree is , in all probability , the natural produce of the soil ; but a generally received story is , that the box was planted there by Thomas , Earl of Arundel , between two and three centuries ago . There is , however , authentic evidence of its being here long before his time , for Henry de Buxeto ( i.e . Henry of Box Hill ) and Adam de Buxeto were witnesses to deeds in the reign of King John . John Evelyn , who wrote about the middle of the seventeenth century , says , `` Box-trees rise naturally at Kent in Bexley ; and in Surrey , giving name to Box Hill . He that in winter should behold some of our highest hills in Surrey , clad with whole woods of them , might easily fancy himself transported into some new or enchanted country . '' In Aubrey 's posthumous work on Surrey , published in 1718 , the northern part of the hill is described as thickly covered with yew-trees , and the southern part with `` thick boscages of box-trees , '' which `` yielded a convenient privacy for lovers , who frequently meet here , so that it is an English Daphne . '' He also tells us that the gentry often resorted here from Ebbesham ( _Epsom_ ) , then in high fashion . Philip Luckombe , in his '' England 's Gazetteer , '' says , on Box Hill `` there is a large warren , but no houses ; only arbours cut out in the box-wood on the top of the hill , where are sold refreshments of all sorts , for the ladies and gentlemen who come hither to divert themselves in its labyrinths ; for which reason a certain author has thought fit to call it the Palace of Venus , and the Temple of Nature ; there being an enchanting prospect from it of a fine country , which is scarce to be equalled for affording so surprising and magnificent an idea both of earth and sky . '' But these delightful retreats , like Arcadia of old , have long since vanished . The _yews_ were cut down in the year 1780 ; and their successors fall very short of the luxuriant descriptions of old topographers . The _box_ has also at various times produced the proprietors of the estate great profit . In 1608 , the receipt for box-trees cut down upon the sheepwalk on the hill was 50_l_ . ; in an account taken in 1712 , it is supposed that as much had been cut down , within a few years before , as amounted to 3,000_l_ . ; and in 1759 , a Mr. Miller lamented that `` the trees on Box Hill had been pretty much destroyed ; though many remained of considerable bigness . '' An immense quantity of box is annually consumed in this country , in the revived art of engraving on wood . The English is esteemed inferior to that which comes from the Levant ; and the American box is said to be preferable to ours . But the ships from the Levant brought such quantities of it in ballast , that the wood on Box Hill could not find a purchaser , and not having been cut for sixty-five years , was growing cankered . The war diminished the influx from the Mediterranean ; several purchasers offered ; and in 1795 it was put up to auction at 12,000_l_ . The depredations made on Box Hill , in consequence of this sale , did not injure its picturesque beauty , as twelve years were allowed for cutting , which gave each portion a reasonable time to renew . In 1802 , forty tons were cut , but the market being overstocked , it fell in value more than fifty per cent . ; and the foreign wood is now universally preferred for engravings . The trees on Box Hill are , however , again flourishing , although their value is rather problematical . For the information of the home tourist , perhaps , I ought to mention that Box Hill stands about 22 miles on the left of the road from London to Worthing , Brighton , and Bognor , and about 2 miles N.E . of the town of Dorking . The road from Leatherhead hence is a constant succession of hill and dale , richly clothed with wood , interspersed with elegant villas in all tastes -- from the pillared and plastered mansion , to the borrowed charm of the _cottage orne_ . The whole of this district is called the Vale of _Norbury_ , from the romantic domain of that name , which extends over a great portion of the hills on the right of the road . Shortly before you reach Box Hill , stands _Mickleham_ , a little village with an ivy-mantled church , rich in Saxon architecture and other antiquities . You then descend into a valley , passing some delightful meadow scenery , and the showy mansion of Sir Lucas Pepys , which rises from a flourishing plantation on the left . In the valley stands Juniper Hall , late the seat of Mr. Thomas Broadwood , the piano-forte 