Produced by David Widger MEMOIRS OF JEAN FRANCOIS PAUL de GONDI , CARDINAL DE RETZ Written by Himself Being Historic Court Memoirs of the Great Events during the Minority of Louis XIV . and the Administration of Cardinal Mazarin . CONTENTS BOOK I . BOOK II . BOOK III . BOOK IV . BOOK V. ILLUSTRATIONS Cardinal de Retz -- -- Photogravure from an Old Painting Turenne -- -- Photogravure from an Old Painting Richelieu -- -- Engraving by Lubin Anne of Austria -- -- Original Etching by Mercier Louis XIII -- -- Painting in the Louvre Conde ' -- -- Painting in Versailles Gallery ORIGINAL PREFACE . Our Author , John Francis Paul de Gondi , Cardinal de Retz , Sovereign of Commercy , Prince of Euville , second Archbishop of Paris , Abbot of Saint Denis in France , was born at Montmirail , in Brie , in October , 1614 . His father was Philippe Emanuel de Gondi , Comte , de Joigni , General of the Galleys of France and Knight of the King 's Orders ; and his mother was Frances Marguerite , daughter of the Comte de Rochepot , Knight of the King 's Orders , and of Marie de Lannoy , sovereign of Commercy and Euville . Pierre de Gondi , Duc de Retz , was his brother , whose daughter was the Duchesse de Lesdiguieres . His grandfather was Albert de Gondi , Duc de Retz , Marquis de Belle Isle , a Peer of France , Marshal and General of the Galleys , Colonel of the French Horse , First Gentleman of the Bedchamber , and Great Chamberlain to the Kings Charles IX . and Henri III . This history was first printed in Paris in 1705 , at the expense of the Duchesse de Lesdiguieres , the last of this noble family , whose estate fell after her decease to that of Villeroy . His preceptor was the famous Vincent de Paul , Almoner to Queen Anne of Austria . In 1627 he was made a Canon of the Cathedral of Paris by his uncle , Jean Francois de Gondi , first archbishop of that city , and was not long after created a Doctor of the Sorbonne . In 1643 he was appointed Coadjutor of the archbishopric of Paris , with the title of Archbishop of Corinth , during which , such was his pastoral vigilance that the most important affairs of the Church were committed to his care . As to his general character , if we take it from his own Memoirs , he had such presence of mind , and so dexterously improved all opportunities which fortune presented to him , that it seemed as if he had foreseen or desired them . He knew how to put a good gloss upon his failings , and oftentimes verily believed he was really the man which he affected to be only in appearance . He was a man of bright parts , but no conduct , being violent and inconstant in his intrigues of love as well as those of politics , and so indiscreet as to boast of his successful amours with certain ladies whom he ought not to have named . He affected pomp and splendour , though his profession demanded simplicity and humility . He was continually shifting parties , being a loyal subject one day and the next a rebel , one time a sworn enemy to the Prime Minister , and by and by his zealous friend ; always aiming to make himself formidable or necessary . As a pastor he had engrossed the love and confidence of the people , and as a statesman he artfully played them off against their sovereign . He studied characters thoroughly , and no man painted them in truer colours more to his own purpose . Sometimes he confesses his weaknesses , and at other times betrays his self-flattery . It being his fate to be imprisoned by Mazarin , first at Vincennes and then at Nantes , he made his escape to Rome , and in 1656 retired to Franche Comte , where Cardinal Mazarin gave orders for his being arrested ; upon which he posted to Switzerland , and thence to Constance , Strasburg , Ulm , Augsburg , Frankfort , and Cologne , to which latter place Mazarin sent men to take him dead or alive ; whereupon he retired to Holland , and made a trip from one town to another till 1661 , when , Cardinal Mazarin dying , our Cardinal went as far as Valenciennes on his way to Paris , but was not suffered to come further ; for the King and Queen-mother would not be satisfied without his resignation of the archbishopric of Paris , to which he at last submitted upon advantageous terms for himself and an amnesty for all his adherents . But still the Court carried it so severely to the Cardinal that they would not let him go and pay his last devoirs to his father when on his dying bed . At length , however , after abundance of solicitation , he had leave to go and wait upon the King and Queen , who , on the death of Pope Alexander VII. , sent him to Rome to assist at the election of his successor . No wonder that King Charles II . of England promised to intercede for the Cardinal 's reestablishment ; for when the royal family were starving , as it were , in their exile at Paris , De Retz did more for them than all the French Court put together ; and , upon the King 's promise to take the Roman Catholics of England under his protection after his restoration , he sent an abbot to Rome to solicit the Pope to lend him money , and to dispose the English Catholics in his favour . He would fain have returned his hat to the new Pope , but his Holiness , at the solicitation of Louis XIV. , ordered him to keep it . After this he chose a total retirement , lived with exemplary piety , considerably retrenched his expenses , and hardly allowed himself common necessaries , in order to save money to pay off a debt of three millions , which he had the happiness to discharge , and to balance all accounts with the world before his death , which happened at Paris on the 24th of August , 1679 , in the 65th year of his age . HISTORIC COURT MEMOIRS . CARDINAL DE RETZ . BOOK I. MADAME : -- Though I have a natural aversion to give you the history of my own life , which has been chequered with such a variety of different adventures , yet I had rather sacrifice my reputation to the commands of a lady for whom I have so peculiar a regard than not disclose the most secret springs of my actions and the inmost recesses of my soul . By the caprice of fortune many mistakes of mine have turned to my credit , and I very much doubt whether it would be prudent in me to remove the veil with which some of them are covered . But as I am resolved to give you a naked , impartial account of even the most minute passages of my life ever since I have been capable of reflection , so I most humbly beg you not to be surprised at the little art , or , rather , great disorder , with which I write my narrative , but to consider that , though the diversity of incidents may sometimes break the thread of the history , yet I will tell you nothing but with all that sincerity which the regard I have for you demands . And to convince you further that I will neither add to nor diminish from the plain truth , I shall set my name in the front of the work . False glory and false modesty are the two rocks on which men who have written their own lives have generally split , but which Thuanus among the moderns and Caesar among the ancients happily escaped . I doubt not you will do me the justice to believe that I do not pretend to compare myself with those great writers in any respect but sincerity , -- a virtue in which we are not only permitted , but commanded , to rival the greatest heroes . I am descended from a family illustrious in France and ancient in Italy , and born upon a day remarkable for the taking of a monstrous sturgeon in a small river that runs through the country of Montmirail , in Brie , the place of my nativity . I am not so vain as to be proud of having it thought that I was ushered into the world with a prodigy or a miracle , and I should never have mentioned this trifling circumstance had it not been for some libels since published by my enemies , wherein they affect to make the said sturgeon a presage of the future commotions in this kingdom , and me the chief author of them . I beg leave to make a short reflection on the nature of the mind of man . I believe there never was a more honest soul in the world than my father 's ; I might say his temper was the very essence of virtue . For though he saw I was too much inclined to duels and gallantry ever to make a figure as an ecclesiastic , yet his great love for his eldest son -- not the view of the archbishopric of Paris , which was then in his family -- made him resolve to devote me to the service of the Church . For he was so conscious of his reasons , that I could even swear he would have protested from the very bottom of his heart that he had no other motive than the apprehension of the dangers to which a contrary profession might expose my soul . So true it is that nothing is so subject to delusion as piety : all sorts of errors creep in and hide themselves under that veil ; it gives a sanction to all the turns of imagination , and the honesty of the intention is not sufficient to guard against it . In a word , after all I have told you , I turned priest , though it would have been long enough first had it not been for the following accident . The Duc de Retz , head of our family , broke at that time , by the King's order , the marriage treaty concluded some years before between the Duc de Mercoeur -- [ Louis , Duc de Mercoeur , since Cardinal de Vendome , father of the Duc de Vendome , and Grand Prior , died 1669 . ] -- and his daughter , and next day came to my father and agreeably surprised him by telling him he was resolved to give her to his cousin to reunite the family . As I knew she had a sister worth above 80,000 livres a year , I , that very instant , thought of a double match . I had no hopes they would think of me , knowing how things stood , so I was resolved to provide for myself . Having got a hint that my father did not intend to carry me to the wedding , as , foreseeing , it may be , what happened , I pretended to be better pleased with my profession , to be touched by what my father had so often laid before me on that subject , and I acted my part so well that they believed I was quite another man . My father resolved to carry me into Brittany , for the reason that I had shown no inclination that way . We found Mademoiselle de Retz at Beaupreau , in Anjou . I looked on the eldest only as my sister , but immediately considered Mademoiselle de Scepaux ( so the youngest was called ) as my mistress . I thought her very handsome , her complexion the most charming in the world , lilies and roses in abundance , admirable eyes , a very pretty mouth , and what she wanted in stature was abundantly made up by the prospect of 80,000 livres a year and of the Duchy of Beaupreau , and by a thousand chimeras which I formed on these real foundations . I played my game nicely from the beginning , and acted the ecclesiastic and the devotee both in the journey and during my stay there ; nevertheless , I paid my sighs to the fair one , -- she perceived it . I spoke at last , and she heard me , but not with that complacency which I could have wished . But observing she had a great kindness for an old chambermaid , sister to one of my monks of Buzai , I did all I could to gain her , and by the means of a hundred pistoles down , and vast promises , I succeeded . She made her mistress believe that she was designed for a nunnery , and I , for my part , told her that I was doomed to nothing less than a monastery . She could not endure her sister , because she was her father 's darling , and I was not overfond of my brother , -- [ Pierre de Gondi , Duc de Retz , who died in 1676 . ] -- for the same reason . This resemblance in our fortunes contributed much to the uniting of our affections , which I persuaded myself were reciprocal , and I resolved to carry her to Holland . Indeed , there was nothing more easy , for Machecoul , whither we were come from Beaupreau , was no more than half a league from the sea . But money was the only thing wanting , for my treasury , was so drained by the gift of the hundred pistoles above mentioned that I had not a sou left . But I found a supply by telling my father that , as the farming of my abbeys was taxed with the utmost rigour of the law , so I thought myself obliged in conscience to take the administration of them into my own hands . This proposal , though not pleasing , could not be rejected , both because it was regular and because it made him in some measure believe that I would not fail to keep my benefices , since I was willing to take care of them . I went the next day to let Buzai , -- [ One of his abbeys . ] -- which is but five leagues from Machecoul . I treated with a Nantes merchant , whose name was Jucatieres , who took advantage of my eagerness , and for 4,000 crowns ready money got a bargain that made his fortune . I thought I had 4,000,000 , and was just securing one of the Dutch pinks , which are always in the road of Retz , when the following accident happened , which broke all my measures . Mademoiselle de Retz ( for she had taken that name after her sister's marriage ) had the finest eyes in the world , and they never were so beautiful as when she was languishing in love , the charms of which I never yet saw equalled . We happened to dine at a lady 's house , a league from Machecoul , where Mademoiselle de Retz , looking in the glass at an assembly of ladies , displayed all those tender , lively , moving airs which the Italians call 'morbidezza ' , or the lover 's languish . But unfortunately she was not aware that Palluau , since Marechal de Clerambaut , was behind her , who observed her airs , and being very much attached to Madame de Retz , with whom he had in her tender years been very familiar , told her faithfully what he had observed . Madame de Retz , who mortally hated her sister , disclosed it that very night to her father , who did not fail to impart it to mine . The next morning , at the arrival of the post from Paris , all was in a hurry , my father pretending to have received very pressing news ; and , after our taking a slight though public leave of the ladies , my father carried me to sleep that night at Nantes . I was , as you may imagine , under very great surprise and concern ; for I could not guess the cause of this sudden departure . I had nothing to reproach myself with upon the score of my conduct ; neither had I the least suspicion that Palluau had seen anything more than ordinary till I arrived at Orleans , where the matter was cleared up , for my brother , to prevent my escape , which I vainly attempted several times on my journey , seized my strong box , in which was my money , and then I understood that I was betrayed ; in what grief , then , I arrived at Paris , I leave you to imagine . I found there Equilli , Vasse 's uncle , and my first cousin , who , I daresay , was one of the most honest men of his time , and loved 