Produced by David Widger FALKLAND By Edward Bulwer-Lytton PREFATORY NOTE TO THE PRESENT EDITION . `` FALKLAND '' is the earliest of Lord Lytton 's prose fictions . Published before `` Pelham , '' it was written in the boyhood of its illustrious author . In the maturity of his manhood and the fulness of his literary popularity he withdrew it from print . This is one of the first English editions of his collected works in which the tale reappears . It is because the morality of it was condemned by his experienced judgment , that the author of `` Falkland '' deliberately omitted it from each of the numerous reprints of his novels and romances which were published in England during his lifetime . With the consent of the author 's son , `` Falkland '' is included in the present edition of his collected works . In the first place , this work has been for many years , and still is , accessible to English readers in every country except England . The continental edition of it , published by Baron Tauchnitz , has a wide circulation ; and since for this reason the book can not practically be withheld from the public , it is thought desirable that the publication of it should at least be accompanied by some record of the abovementioned fact . In the next place , the considerations which would naturally guide an author of established reputation in the selection of early compositions for subsequent republication , are obviously inapplicable to the preparation of a posthumous standard edition of his collected works . Those who read the tale of `` Falkland '' eight-and-forty years ago ' have long survived the age when character is influenced by the literature of sentiment . The readers to whom it is now presented are not Lord Lytton's contemporaries ; they are his posterity . To them his works have already become classical . It is only upon the minds of the young that the works of sentiment have any appreciable moral influence . But the sentiment of each age is peculiar to itself ; and the purely moral influence of sentimental fiction seldom survives the age to which it was first addressed . The youngest and most impressionable reader of such works as the `` Nouvelle Hemise , '' `` Werther , '' `` The Robbers , '' `` Corinne , '' or `` Rene , '' is not now likely to be morally influenced , for good or ill , by the perusal of those masterpieces of genius . Had Byron attained the age at which great authors most realise the responsibilities of fame and genius , he might possibly have regretted , and endeavoured to suppress , the publication of `` Don Juan ; '' but the possession of that immortal poem is an unmixed benefit to posterity , and the loss of it would have been an irreparable misfortune . `` Falkland , '' although the earliest , is one of the most carefully finished of its author 's compositions . All that was once turbid , heating , unwholesome in the current of sentiment which flows through this history of a guilty passion , `` Death 's immortalising winter '' has chilled and purified . The book is now a harmless , and , it may be hoped , a not uninteresting , evidence of the precocity of its author 's genius . As such , it is here reprinted . [ It was published in 1827 ] FALKLAND . BOOK I . FROM ERASMUS FALKLAND , ESQ. , TO THE HON . FREDERICK MONKTON . L -- - , May -- , 1822 . You are mistaken , my dear Monkton ! Your description of the gaiety of '' the season '' gives me no emotion . You speak of pleasure ; I remember no labour so wearisome ; you enlarge upon its changes ; no sameness appears to me so monotonous . Keep , then , your pity for those who require it . From the height of my philosophy I compassionate you . No one is so vain as a recluse ; and your jests at my hermitship and hermitage can not penetrate the folds of a self-conceit , which does not envy you in your suppers at D -- -- House , nor even in your waltzes with Eleanor . It is a ruin rather than a house which I inhabit . I have not been at L -- -- - since my return from abroad , and during those years the place has gone rapidly to decay ; perhaps , for that reason , it suits me better , _tel maitre telle maison_ . Of all my possessions this is the least valuable in itself , and derives the least interest from the associations of childhood , for it was not at L -- -- - that any part of that period was spent . I have , however , chosen it from my present retreat , because here only I am personally unknown , and therefore little likely to be disturbed . I do not , indeed , wish for the interruptions designed as civilities ; I rather gather around myself , link after link , the chains that connected me with the world ; I find among my own thoughts that variety and occupation which you only experience in your intercourse with others ; and I make , like the Chinese , my map of the universe consist of a circle in a square -- the circle is my own empire and of thought and self ; and it is to the scanty corners which it leaves without , that I banish whatever belongs to the remainder of mankind . About a mile from L -- -- - is Mr. Mandeville 's beautiful villa of E -- -- - , in the midst of grounds which form a delightful contrast to the savage and wild scenery by which they are surrounded . As the house is at present quite deserted , I have obtained , through the gardener , a free admittance into his domains , and I pass there whole hours , indulging , like the hero of the _Lutrin , `` une sainte oisivete , '' _ listening to a little noisy brook , and letting my thoughts be almost as vague and idle as the birds which wander among the trees that surround me . I could wish , indeed , that this simile were in all things correct -- that those thoughts , if as free , were also as happy as the objects of my comparison , and could , like them , after the rovings of the day , turn at evening to a resting-place , and be still . We are the dupes and the victims of our senses : while we use them to gather from external things the hoards that we store within , we can not foresee the punishments we prepare for ourselves ; the remembrance which stings , and the hope which deceives , the passions which promise us rapture , which reward us with despair , and the thoughts which , if they constitute the healthful action , make also the feverish excitement of our minds . What sick man has not dreamt in his delirium everything that our philosophers have said ? * But I am growing into my old habit of gloomy reflection , and it is time that I should conclude . I meant to have written you a letter as light as your own ; if I have failed , it is no wonder. -- '' Notre coeur est un instrument incomplet -- une lyre ou il manque des cordes , et ou nous sommes forces de rendre les accens de la joie , sur le ton consacre aux soupirs . '' * Quid aegrotus unquam somniavit quod philosophorum aliquis non dixerit ? -- LACTANTIUS . FROM THE SAME TO THE SAME . You ask me to give you some sketch of my life , and of that _bel mondo_ which wearied me so soon . Men seldom reject an opportunity to talk of themselves ; and I am not unwilling to re-examine the past , to re-connect it with the present , and to gather from a consideration of each what hopes and expectations are still left to me for the future . But my detail must be rather of thought than of action ; most of those whose fate has been connected with mine are now living , and I would not , even to you , break that tacit confidence which much of my history would require . After all , you will have no loss . The actions of another may interest -- but , for the most part , it is only his reflections which come home to us ; for few have acted , nearly all of us have thought . My own vanity too would be unwilling to enter upon incidents which had their origin either in folly or in error . It is true that those follies and errors have ceased , but their effects remain . With years our faults diminish , but our vices increase . You know that my mother was Spanish , and that my father was one of that old race of which so few scions remain , who , living in a distant country , have been little influenced by the changes of fashion , and , priding themselves on the antiquity of their names , have looked with contempt upon the modern distinctions and the mushroom nobles which have sprung up to discountenance and eclipse the plainness of more venerable and solid respectability . In his youth my father had served in the army . He had known much of men and more of books ; but his knowledge , instead of rooting out , had rather been engrafted on his prejudices . He was one of that class ( and I say it with a private reverence , though a public regret ) , who , with the best intentions , have made the worst citizens , and who think it a duty to perpetuate whatever is pernicious by having learnt to consider it as sacred . He was a great country gentleman , a great sportsman , and a great Tory ; perhaps the three worst enemies which a country can have . Though beneficent to the poor , he gave but a cold reception to the rich ; for he was too refined to associate with his inferiors , and too proud to like the competition of his equals . One ball and two dinners a-year constituted all the aristocratic portion of our hospitality , and at the age of twelve , the noblest and youngest companions that I possessed were a large Danish dog and a wild mountain pony , as unbroken and as lawless as myself . It is only in later years that we can perceive the immeasurable importance of the early scenes and circumstances which surrounded us . It was in the loneliness of my unchecked wanderings that my early affection for my own thoughts was conceived . In the seclusion of nature -- in whatever court she presided -- the education of my mind was begun ; and , even at that early age , I rejoiced ( like the wild heart the Grecian poet [ Eurip . Bambae , 1 . 874 . ] has described ) in the stillness of the great woods , and the solitudes unbroken by human footstep . The first change in my life was under melancholy auspices ; my father fell suddenly ill , and died ; and my mother , whose very existence seemed only held in his presence , followed him in three months . I remember that , a few hours before her death , she called me to her : she reminded me that , through her , I was of Spanish extraction ; that in her country , I received my birth , and that , not the less for its degradation and distress , I might hereafter find in the relations which I held to it a remembrance to value , or even a duty to fulfil . On her tenderness to me at that hour , on the impression it made upon my mind , and on the keen and enduring sorrow which I felt for months after her death , it would be useless to dwell . My uncle became my guardian . He is , you know , a member of parliament of some reputation ; very sensible and very dull ; very much respected by men , very much disliked by women ; and inspiring all children , of either sex , with the same unmitigated aversion which he feels for them himself . I did not remain long under his immediate care . I was soon sent to school -- that preparatory world , where the great primal principles of human nature , in the aggression of the strong and the meanness of the weak , constitute the earliest lesson of importance that we are taught ; and where the forced _primitiae_ of that less universal knowledge which is useless to the many who in after life , neglect , and bitter to the few who improve it , are the first motives for which our minds are to be broken to terror , and our hearts initiated into tears . Bold and resolute by temper , I soon carved myself a sort of career among my associates . A hatred to all oppression , and a haughty and unyielding character , made me at once the fear and aversion of the greater powers and principalities of the school ; while my agility at all boyish games , and my ready assistance or protection to every one who required it , made me proportionally popular with , and courted by , the humbler multitude of the subordinate classes . I was constantly surrounded by the most lawless and mischievous followers whom the school could afford ; all eager for my commands , and all pledged to their execution . In good truth , I was a worthy Rowland of such a gang ; though I excelled in , I cared little for the ordinary amusements of the school : I was fonder of engaging in marauding expeditions contrary to our legislative restrictions , and I valued myself equally upon my boldness in planning our exploits , and my dexterity in eluding their discovery . But exactly in proportion as our school terms connected me with those of my own years , did our vacations unfit me for any intimate companionship but that which I already began to discover in myself . Twice in the year , when I went home , it was to that wild and romantic part of the country where my former childhood had been spent . There , alone and unchecked , I was thrown utterly upon my own resources . I wandered by day over the rude scenes which surrounded us ; and at evening I pored , with an unwearied delight , over the ancient legends which made those scenes sacred to my imagination . I grew by degrees of a more thoughtful and visionary nature . My temper imbibed the romance of my studies ; and whether , in winter , basking by the large hearth of our old hall , or stretched , in the indolent voluptuousness of summer , by the rushing streams which formed the chief characteristic of the country around us , my hours were equally wasted in those dim and luxurious dreams , which constituted , perhaps , the essence of that poetry I had not the genius to embody . It was then , by that alternate restlessness of action and idleness of reflection , into which my young years were divided , that the impress of my character was stamped : that fitfulness of temper , that affection for extremes , has accompanied me through life . Hence , not only all intermediums of emotion appear to me as tame , but even the most overwrought excitation can bring neither novelty nor zest . I have , as it were , feasted upon the passions ; I have made that my daily food , which , in its strength and excess , would have been poison to others ; I have rendered my mind unable to enjoy the ordinary aliments of nature ; and I have wasted , by a premature indulgence , my resources and my powers , till I have left my heart , without a remedy or a hope , to whatever disorders its own intemperance has engendered . FROM THE SAME TO THE SAME . When I left Dr. -- -- - 's , I was sent to a private tutor in D -- -- -e. Here I continued for about two years . It was during that time that -- but what then befell me is for no living ear ! The characters of that history are engraven on my heart in letters of fire ; but it is a language that none but myself have the authority to read . It is enough for the purpose of my confessions that the events of that period were connected with the first awakening of the most powerful of human passions , and that , whatever their commencement , their end was despair ! and she -- the object of that love -- the only being in the world who ever possessed the secret and the spell of my nature 