That night , searching in an old secretary in his room for some missing notes , Mark came upon a little daguerreotype in a drawer . It was of a young girl , taken apparently in the late sixties or early seventies . Something in the face , clear-eyed , warm-lipped , trusting , caught and held his attention . He turned it over to see if the girl 's name was on the back , but the only inscription was a date in his Uncle William's writing , June , 1863 . Poor Uncle William , who had been so full of promise , they said , but who had died from a bullet wound , a sacrifice to his country two years after the war ! Some girl that his uncle had loved , perhaps . The young man 's face , dark-eyed , romantic , familiar to him through the old picture in uniform always on his mother 's dressing-table , rose before his mind's eye . Perhaps Uncle William had taken the little picture away with him to the war . The date must have been just about the time that he had enlisted and marched away . He had gone without telling her perhaps ; she could have been little more than a child . Perhaps he had never told . Or they might have had their brief tragic happiness upon the edge of death , they two `` embracing under death 's spread hand . '' He stared at the picture . It would have been easy to love a girl with those eyes , that mouth . A fancy came upon him to put Uncle William's picture beside the girl 's , and impulsively he went back to the darkened drawing-room , groped for the framed picture that stood upon the mantel , found it , and carried it up to his room . Then side by side he studied the two faces . His imagination began to reconstruct their story . He wished that he might learn more . He went back to the old desk . It might have been his uncle 's . He opened a drawer ; it was empty . A second and a third ; the last contained some valueless miscellany , an old glass knob a faded bit of worsted fringe , some papers . Poking under them , he actually found a package of letters . He picked it up , and with a little thrill of realization recognized his uncle 's writing . The paper was old and yellowed with time . It had no address , but was sealed with red wax . Scarcely expecting fulfillment of his romantic hope , he broke the seal and opened the package . There was no address on the first envelope . Some business memorandum , no doubt ; yet nothing surely that at this late day he might not in honor examine . He drew out the closely written sheet and turned it over . After all the years his eyes were surely the first to read it . There was no name in the inscription . Uncle William 's fine writing was very legible . II July 15 , 1863 . My little love with the smooth hair and the great eyes , you do not know that I have the little daguerreotype next my heart . I stole it from Lucretia , and packed it among my things . How often I shall take it out in the long days ahead before the war is over and I can come back to tell you that I love you . You will wait for me , sweetheart . No other man shall be the one to make those clear eyes fall , to change them from a child 's to a woman 's eyes . I can see you as you stood there beside the sun-dial . `` Fight a brave fight , William , '' you said , `` and come back soon . '' You were brave and glorious . Your eyes were not even wet , yet you care enough for me to shed a tear . I know that , little Allison . We have been such good comrades , you and I. I looked back and saw you waving . But you trust life so fearlessly , child . You are only fifteen . At that age one can not imagine death . I am twenty-three and am a man . I knew I must not speak . I knew it , though my heart was knocking against my sides for love of you . So I shall not send these letters . I shall send you a line now and then , but not of love . You will hear the news of me from mother and the girls . I shall write these letters just the same , and keep them , and if the day comes when those great eyes , those dear and wonderful eyes , give the promise my heart is waiting for , then I shall hand them to you to read , and you shall know how long and faithfully I have loved you . I shall not write you of the war and the long marches ; those things will be in my home letters . To you I shall write only of ourselves , not as if I were in the midst of battle and sudden death , but as if I were at home in Beechwood , where my heart is , at my window overlooking a corner of your garden . I am there now , sitting at my window as I write . I have just caught a glimpse of you in your Sunday gown , the white-and-green striped silk , with the tiny lavender flowers scattered on the white ground . You were picking a spray of lemon verbena to take to church . I see you in the little green bonnet in the high pew beside your mother . You have the soul of a lover , my Allison . I know it when I see you smell the fragrant flowers . Little Allison , how you will love when your day comes ! Your mouth , so young , so warm , so generous , was made to give all ; your pure eyes for complete trust . You belong to me , my Allison , although you do not know it yet . Even as I write this , fear shakes my heart . Have not all lovers thought the same ? So strong is the sense of possession in love , so impossible it seems to the human heart that we should give all and receive nothing . What if some one should rudely awaken your clear soul from its young sleep , lay hot human hands upon you , my rose , my little cool , white flower ! I can not bear these thoughts . You are mine , and I shall let you sleep until the moment comes for love to knock at the door of your heart . There shall be no rude awakening . I shall speak first so gently , yes , you shall be roused slowly from that sleep of childhood . Then you will put your hands in mine and say , `` William , I love you , '' just as you said to me to-day , '' Fight a good fight . '' And I will take those dear hands and draw you slowly toward me and kiss you on your fine , straight brows , your serene forehead , that is like that of the angels in the Italian pictures father brought home from Italy . Then I will let you go . I shall not be too impetuous , lest I frighten you . And then some day you will say again , '' Come home soon William , '' and it will mean that I am to go home to you . Yours till death , WILLIAM . August , '63 . My love with the dove 's eyes : Why were you so shy when I met you to-day on the gravel path ? I asked you where you were going . You would not stop ; you almost ran past , like a little gray moth . I love you in that gray little gown ; your little bare shoulders are pink beside it , like a spring flower beside a stone . Why were you so shy ? You are too young to have a lover . There is no one except the tow-headed Bowman boy across the street . It could not have been he . Then you went to the piano , and I heard you singing softly , `` My Love is like a Red , Red Rose . '' What can you know of love , my little one ? I am jealous of life itself that must bring that change to you . I would delay that day . Not yet would I have the bud open for the hot sun to draw out its fragrance . I would keep you yet a while in the white , austere innocence of your youth . My little love , my child , the hour is not yet . WILLIAM . September , '64 . Where I sit at my window , sweetheart , I can see the corner of the grape-arbor in your garden . Do you remember the day we sat there , and I read you my story , and you listened , with your great dreaming eyes on the slippery leaf shadows , and your mouth stained with the purple grapes ? And when I had finished , you asked me , `` Why did Reginald think he had to die , William ? '' And I told you , `` Because he loved Eleanor so much and she loved another man . '' `` Then why did n't he love some one else , too ? How silly they all were ! '' you said . You were too young to understand . I look in the eyes of the little girl in the picture , and she does not understand . The little girl is a year younger than you , and the green-and-white frock in the picture was torn and darned last summer . I remember how you looked , bent over your needle , your red lips a little heavy with unspoken protest as you sewed the long rent . What a child you always were to tear your frocks and get berry stains on your white aprons and scratch your fingers and arms with briers ! And how I have loved each scratch and stain . My sweet , wild little Allison ! Now perhaps you begin to understand , to wonder and dream a little . You may even have your dreams of lovers . You wonder yet with no intimation behind your clear eyes of what this thing is that incites men to courage or drives them to madness and death . Have you wondered yet if some day it will come to you ? Or does it live still in that fair , fragrant world of your imagination as a tale that is told ? * * * * * To-day you came home from your sewing circle , where you sewed garments for the soldiers , and when you came away you let me carry your package . The sleeve of your little gray gown had been darned , and you had outgrown the dress . `` It is n't pretty any more , but I must n't have a new one , '' you said . `` It is wicked for us to have new things when the soldiers are ragged and cold . '' And that look that is like tears came into your eyes . Oh , how I longed to kiss the hand you held out for your bundle at the gate ! Not yet , Allison . You are just sixteen . You are a child yet . I must wait . WILLIAM . December , '64 . My Allison , I signed myself last your William , and I called you mine . It is no bold assumption . Neither life nor death can make me other than yours , whether you will or not , neither can it make you any less mine . Is n't it our George William Curtis who said that the land belonged to his rich neighbor , but the view was his ? No matter if I never touch your dear hands save as a friend , my Allison , you will still be mine , because I have divined the fine mysteries of your spirit . I am your worshiper and knight , whatever fate befalls us . `` We needs must love the highest when we see it , '' says the new poet across the water . No truer words were ever spoken . So in that fine inner sense I am yours and you are mine whether you ever come to love me or not . To-day I found you chasing a butterfly in the garden . What a child you are still ! You brushed me as you ran past , then , as you turned , ran almost into my arms . Ah , my Allison , you did not know how it set my heart beating when that loose strand of your hair blew across my face ! Your cheeks were flushed , and you drew back laughing . `` What do you want with the butterfly , Allison ? '' I asked . `` You surely would not hurt it . If you throw your bonnet over it , you will break its wings . '' You looked at me with your great eyes . `` I would not do that , William . I only wanted to see the gold spots on its wings . '' `` You can do that best without touching it , my dear , '' I said . `` A touch will destroy its gold dust . '' You looked at me with your pure eyes and said , -- like a little child , yet you are almost a woman , -- '' Oh , William , I would not break its wings . '' And then sharply a thought struck me like a pang . Can I perhaps see you better with my soul 's eyes , Allison , if you are never mine ? Would I break _your_ wings in touching you ? Are you something too fine and fair for human experience ? It came like a presentiment then that you would never be mine in the dear common human way . Can it be so , dear love ? No , no ; I would have you when the hour comes . Despite the angel in your eyes , you were made to make fair a home , to know in all its phases a man 's love , to hold your children in your arms , -- children with eyes such as you have now , -- and teach them such things as pure beings like you can teach to children . `` Is n't it nice that they are butterflies last , William ? '' you said . `` Suppose they had to grow brown and ugly and to move slowly , instead of flying , when they are old like people . '' `` It is like life and death , '' I told you , although God knows I am no preacher . Perhaps it is because my body is at the war while my soul is in Beechwood that I must sometimes think these thoughts of death . Your eyes looked straight into mine then , with something like a reflection of heaven 's light . Then again all at once they were a child's again , and you said : `` Grandma 's portrait in the hall is beautiful . She was sixteen then . But she is n't pretty any more . '' `` No , she is n't pretty any more , Allison , yet once like you she chased butterflies in the garden . And that portrait was painted the year before she was married . '' Why was it then that you turned away your eyes and the soft curve of your cheek grew pink ? Perhaps it is always so with the young girl at the thought of love and marriage ; but you are still a child . `` The butterfly has flown away , Allison , and you never even looked at its golden wings , '' I reminded you , and you laughed and shrugged . `` There will be another , '' you said . Yes , there will always be more butterflies in the garden , and there will always be more lovers in the world for such as you while your sweet youth lasts , whether I live to woo you or not . That thought saddens me . Yet should I not feel it enough to have known and loved you ? Suppose you had never been in the world , and I had loved some commonplace pretty girl instead of little Allison , with eyes like an autumn brook in the sun ? Oh , my dear , the time is long , and I grow weary with my make-believing . I am a thousand miles away . A cold rain is falling . I could not bear it were 