THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE , AMUSEMENT , AND INSTRUCTION . VOL . 17 , No . 491 . ] SATURDAY , MAY 28 , 1831 . [ PRICE 2d . * * * * * AMPTHILL HOUSE , THE SEAT OF LORD HOLLAND . [ Illustration ] This is a delightful retreat for the statesman and man of letters -- distinctions which its illustrious occupant enjoys with high honour to his country and himself . Ampthill is throughout a never-tiring region of romantic beauties . These were sung in some lines of great sweetness and poetical feeling , a few years since by Mr. Luttrell , who appears to have taken his muse by the arm , and `` wandered up and down , '' describing the natural glories and olden celebrity of Ampthill . We remember to have read his `` Lines '' with unmixed pleasure . The Engraving is copied from one of a Series of `` Select Illustrations of Bedfordshire ; '' the letter-press accompaniments being neatly written by the Rev . I. D. Parry , M. A. author of the `` History of Woburn . '' Ampthill follows . Ampthill House , now the seat of the Right Hon . Lord Holland , is a plain but very neat edifice , built of good stone . It was erected by the first Lord Ashburnham , then the possessor of the estate , in 1694 . It is situated rather below the summit of a hill , which rises at some little distance behind , and much less elevated than the site of the old castle , but has still a commanding situation in front , and is sufficiently elevated to possess a great share of the fine view over the vale of Bedford . It is also well sheltered by trees , though the passing traveller would have no idea of the magnificent lime alley , which is concealed behind it . The house has a long front , abundantly furnished with windows , and has two deep and projecting wings . In the centre is a plain angular pediment , bearing the late Lord Ossory 's arms , and over the door is a small circular one , pierced for an antique bust , and supported by two three-quarter Ionic pillars . In this house is a small collection of paintings , & c. , principally portraits . At the foot of the staircase is a large painting , formerly _in fresco_ at Houghton House , which was taken off the wall , and put on canvass by an ingenious process of the late Mr. Salmon . It represents a gamekeeper , or woodman , taking aim with a cross-bow , full front , with some curious perspective scenery , 6 feet by 9-1/2 feet . We have heard a tradition , that it is some person of high rank in disguise ; some say James I. , who was once on a visit at Houghton . From the propensities of `` gentle King Jamie , '' this is not unlikely . The pleasure ground at the back of the house , commands a pleasing , extensive view ; beyond this is the lime walk , which is certainly one of the finest in England. -- It is upwards of a quarter of a mile in length , the trees in some parts , finely arching ; and may be pronounced , upon the whole , superior to any walk in Oxford or Cambridge . The park in which this house stands , is well known , from many descriptions , to be a singularly picturesque and pleasing one . It is , at the same time , a small one , but the dimensions are concealed by the numerous and beautiful groups of trees with which it is studded . The oaks are particularly celebrated for their great size and age , several of them are supposed to be upwards of 500 years old , and some do not hesitate to say 1,000 years ; the girth of many of them is ten yards , or considerably more . A survey of this park , by order of the Conventional Parliament , in 1653 , pronounced 287 of these oaks as being hollow , and too much decayed for the use of the navy . The whole of these remain to this day , and may , perhaps , continue two or three centuries longer ; some few of them have been scathed by lightning . Behind the house , near the entrance of the park from the turnpike-road , are some ponds , similar in appearance to those frequently seen adjoining ancient mansions ; above these , at the edge of a precipice , was the front of the ancient castle . This building is doubtless that erected by Lord Fanhope , at the beginning of the fifteenth century . It was used as a royal resort by Henry VIII. , who was often here , and by Queen Catherine , who resided here some time previous , and during the time her divorce was in process at Dunstable . There are , in the possession of Lord Holland , two ground plans of this castle , which , by the late Lord Ossory , were supposed to have been taken about the year 1616 , at which time it was supposed the castle was demolished . From these , the following particulars of this building are collected : -- The area was a square of about 220 feet ; in front was a large court , 115 feet by 120 ; behind this were two very small ones , each 45 feet square ; and between these was an oblong courtyard . Between the front and back courts , the building had two small lateral projections , like the transepts of a church . In front were two square projecting towers ; and round the building , at irregular distances , were nine others , projecting , of different shapes , but principally five-sided segments of octagons -- if this description be intelligible . It was , probably , from the general appearance of the plan , intended more as a residence for a nobleman or prince , than a fortress , although the situation was favourable for defence . The view in front is extremely beautiful for this part of the country . Lord Ossory planted a grove of firs at the back of this spot , and erected , in 1773 , in the centre , a monument , consisting of an octagonal shaft raised on four steps , surmounted by a cross , bearing a shield with Queen Catherine 's arms , of Castile and Arragon . This was designed by Mr. Essex , the improver of King 's College , Chapel , and is very neat , but of small dimensions . On a tablet inserted in the base of the cross , is the following inscription , from the pen of Horace Walpole , Earl of Orford , which when read on the spot , excites some degree of interest : -- In days of yore , here Ampthill 's towers were seen , The mournful refuge of an injured queen ; Here flowed her pure , but unavailing tears , Here blinded zeal sustained her sinking years . Yet Freedom hence her radiant banner wav 'd , And Love avenged a realm by priests enslav 'd ; From Catherine 's wrongs a nation 's bliss was spread , And Luther 's light from lawless Henry 's bed . The possessors of Ampthill are thus traced by Mr. Parry : -- The survey of Ampthill Park , made by order of Parliament , 1649 , speaks of the castle as being long ago totally demolished . [ 1 ] There was , however , what was called the Great Lodge , or Capital Mansion . King James I. gave the Honour of Ampthill to the Earl of Kelly . It soon reverted to the Crown . In 1612 , Thomas , Lord Fenton , and Elizabeth his wife , resigned the office of High Steward of the Honour of Ampthill to the King . The following year the custody of the Great Park was granted to Lord Bruce , whose family became lessees of the Honour , which they kept till 1738 . In the 17th century , the Nicholls 's became lessees of the Great Park under the Bruces , who reserved the office of Master of the Game . The Nicholls 's resided at the Capital Mansion . After the Restoration , Ampthill Great Park was granted by Charles II . to Mr. John Ashburnham , as some reward for his distinguished services to his father and himself ( _vide_ Hist . Eng . ) The first Lord Ashburnham built the present house , in 1694 . In 1720 it was purchased of this family by Viscount Fitzwilliam , who sold it in 1736 to Lady Gowran , grandmother of the late Lord Ossory , who in 1800 , became possessed of the lease of the Honour , by exchange with the Duke of Bedford . His family name , an ancient one in Ireland , was Fitzpatrick ; he was Earl of Upper Ossory in Ireland , and Baron of the same in England . He died in 1818 , and was succeeded by Lord Holland , the present possessor , who has also a fine old mansion at Kensington . [ 2 ] [ 1 ] In Peck 's `` Desiderata Curiosa , '' is a list of salaries paid in Queen Elizabeth 's time to the Keepers , & c. of all the Royal Palaces and Castles . At Ampthill they were as follow : Keeper of the Manor House , 2l . 13s . 4d. , Great Park , 4l. , with herbage and pannage , 15l . ; _Paler_ of the Park , 4l . 11s . 4d. , herbage and pannage , 15l . [ 2 ] For an Engraving of which see _the Mirror_ , vol . xiii . p. 385 . The present Lord Holland , Henry Richard Vassal Fox , Baron Holland of Holland Co. Lincoln , and Foxley , Co. Wilts , Recorder of Nottingham , F.R.S.A . ; was born November 23 , 1773 , succeeded to the title in 1774 ; married , 1797 , Elizabeth , a daughter of Richard Vassal , Esq . * * * * * CHARACTER OF A GOOD ALBUM . ( _For the Mirror._ ) -- '' Here 's a gem of beauty ! It sparkles with a pure and virgin lustre , And many prize it much . '' OLD POET . There is something very interesting associated with a well-arranged and elegant album , embodying passages of delicate taste and superior talent , and containing the diversified , playful , pointed , eloquent , and original papers , of a number of intellectual and distinguished contributors . I had , a short time ago , one of these beautiful albums placed in my hand , which was characterized by marked and pre-eminent excellencies . In addition to its being bound in the most splendid manner , and containing the most tasteful embellishments , on paper exquisitely embossed , it was adorned with appropriate contributions , from the vigorous mind of Mrs. Hannah Moore -- from the pure and classic taste of the eloquent Robert Hall -- from the fervid and poetic imagination of James Montgomery -- and many an elegant and beauteous production , communicated by our superior and ingenious writers . It was deeply interesting to mark the specimens of penmanship which the various contributors furnished : the bold hand of one -- the neat style of another -- the careless and dashing strokes of another -- and the stiff , awkward , and almost illegible writing of another . I was much struck , also , with the variety of mind which the album exhibited : on one page , there was the comic strain of Hood ; on another , the pure and exquisite taste of Campbell ; on another , the fire and vividness of Scott ; on another , the minute and graphic painting of Crabbe ; and on another , the bold , condensed , and impassioned style , in which Byron so peculiarly excelled . Now , if all albums could be of this character , their value would be intrinsic and superior , and they would be permanently interesting , because to them we could frequently recur with refreshing and peculiar enjoyment . I regret , however , to say , that the majority of albums are comparatively valueless : they are written with so much negligence ; many of the pieces are of so light and frivolous a character ; there is so much childish and mawkish sentimentality in numbers of the effusions poured forth ; and there is so great a destitution of solid , original , and striking thought , that , in my unpretending , yet honest estimation , the majority of albums are worth comparatively nothing . A good album should contain pieces of genuine talent ; should be marked by no frivolity or childishness ; should be concise , pointed , and powerful in its contributions ; and should embody valuable moral principle ; and , to secure these excellencies , the possessor of an elegant album should not place it in the hand of any , accompanied with the request that a contribution be inserted , without ascertaining , in the first instance , that the person solicited is of genuine taste and talent , and real principle ; because , if these qualifications be not developed , an album will be merely filled with trifling , crude , unconnected , and worthless pieces -- marked by no beauty , exhibiting no taste , characterized by no originality , and inculcating no valuable sentiment . T. W. * * * * * POPULAR SUPERSTITIONS . ( _For the Mirror._ ) No man will be found in whose mind airy notions do not sometimes tyrannize and force him to hope or fear beyond the limits of sober probability. -- JOHNSON . The superstitions of nations must always be interesting , since they afford a criterion of the progress that knowledge and reason have made . To trace the origin of the belief that departed spirits revisit the earth , a belief apparently so repugnant to reason and revelation , must ever attract the attention of the curious . For it is a question of importance to religion , even although the existence of apparitions would not in the slightest degree invalidate those sacred writings on which the bases of religion are founded ; on the contrary , if the reality of apparitions ( that is of the existence of apparitions ) could be ascertained , another proof would be added to an immense weight of testimony of the ability possessed by the Deity to arrest or alter what appears the ordinary course of nature . The existence of apparitions has been acknowledged by many , and a tendency towards a belief of them is to be remarked in many more . Ardent , and what is stranger still , since directly opposed to ardent , morbid minds are too ready to embrace `` the pleasing dreadful thought , '' and to this may be attributed the prevalence of this kind of superstition among the poets , and all indeed of an enthusiastic temperament . [ 3 ] Some of the tales urged in defence of apparitions are upon a _prim faci_ observation to be traced to an exuberance [ 4 ] of imagination on the part of the ghost , others that are plainly false , and others that as they can not be authenticated , are not worthy of notice . I shall here give what I consider an example of the former . [ 3 ] Dr. Johnson , it is well known , was a firm believer in ghosts , as the following extract will show : -- '' That the dead are seen no more , '' said Imlac , `` I will undertake to maintain , against the concurrent and unvaried testimony of all ages , and of all nations . * * * This opinion which , perhaps , prevails as far as human nature is diffused , could become universal only by its truth ( ! ) : those that never heard of one another would not have agreed in a tale which nothing but experience could make credible . '' -- _Rasselas_ , chap . xxx . [ 4 ] When the grammarians could not interpret some word in a sentence , which they could make without it , they used to attribute the unfortunate word to a natural redundancy in the language , and in the same manner all ghost stories could be solved by referring it to `` an exuberance , '' & c. & c. During the celebrated Peninsular campaign , as a lady , whose son , a French officer in Spain , was seated in her room , she was astonished to perceive the folding doors at the bottom of the apartment slowly open , and disclose to her eyes , _her son_ . He begged her not to be alarmed , and informed her that he had been just killed by a grape-shot , and even showed her the wound in his side ; the doors closed again and she saw no more . In a few days she received a letter , which informed her that her son had fallen , after distinguishing himself in a 