Produced by Joshua Hutchinson , William Flis , the PG Online Distributed Proofreading Team , and Cornell University INTERNATIONAL WEEKLY MISCELLANY Of Literature , Art , and Science . * * * * * Vol . I . NEW YORK , AUGUST 26 , 1850 . No . 9 . * * * * * NUMISMATIC ARCHOLOGY . A magnificent work [ 1 ] upon this subject has just been completed in Paris , where it was commenced fifteen years ago . It was begun under the auspices of M. Paul Delaroche and M.C . Lenormand , member of the Institute , and well known already as one of the first authorities in the numismatic branch of archology . Some faint idea of the greatness of the task may be given by stating that it embraces the whole range of art , from the regal coins of Syracuse and of the Ptolemies , down to those of our day ; that such a stupendous scheme should ever have been carried into execution is not solely due to the admirable ease and fidelity , with which the `` Collas machine '' renders the smallest and the largest gems of the antique : but to him who first felt , appreciated , and afterward promoted its capabilities in this labor of love , M.A . Lachevardiere . Comparisons and contrasts , which are the life of art , though generally confined to the mental vision , are not the least of the recommendations of this vast work . For the first time have the minor treasures of each country been brought together , and not the least conspicuous portion are those from the British Museum and the Bank of England . [ Footnote 1 : Trsor de Numismatique et de Glyptique ; ou , Recueil Gnral de Mdailles , Monnaies , Pierres Graves , Sceaux , Bas-reliefs , Ornements , & c. Paris , 1850 . ] Whether we consider the selection of these monumental relics , the explanatory letterpress , or the engravings which reproduce them , we are struck by the admirable taste , science , and fidelity with which the largest as well as the smallest gems have each and every one been made to tally in size with the originals . The collection of the `` Trsor de Numismatique et Glyptique , '' consisting of twenty volumes in folio , and containing a thousand engraved plates in folio , reproduces upward of 15,000 specimens , and is divided into three classes -- 1st . The coins , medals , cameos , & c. of antiquity ; 2d . Those of the middle ages ; lastly , those of modern times . The details of this immense mass of artistic wealth would be endless ; but these three classes seem to be arranged according to the latest classification of numismatists . In the first class may be noticed -- 1 . The regal coins of Greece , which contains , beside the portraits of the Greek Kings , to be found in Visconti 's `` Iconographie , '' copied from medals and engraved gems , all the coins bearing the Greek name of either a king , a prince , or a tyrant , and every variety of these types , whether they bear the effigy of a prince , or only reproduce his name . To the medals of each sovereign are joined the most authentic and celebrated engraved gems of European cabinets . Next come the series of portraits of the Roman emperors and their families , with all the important varieties of Roman numismatics , amongst which will be found the most celebrated coins of France , Vienna , Dresden , Munich , Florence , Naples , St. Petersburg , Weimar , & c. ; and , moreover , those medallions which perpetuate great events . These two volumes contain eight-fold more matter than the great work of Visconti . In the second class , containing the works of the middle ages , and showing the uninterrupted progress of the numismatic art down to modern times , and forming alone fourteen volumes , we find the source which the French artists and men of letters have studied with such predilection . First in order are the Italian medals of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries , chiefly by the famous Victor Pisano , a Veronese , whom Nasari has so much lauded . The scholars and imitators of Pisano also produced works as interesting as historical documents as they are admirable in workmanship . Here also will be found the French and English seals , in which the balance of skill in design and execution is acknowledged to be in our favor . Less barbarous , and indeed perfect works of art , in character of costume and visage , are the medals struck in Germany during the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries , when the influence of Albert Durer and his school was strongly felt . And finally , relics of ornamental art of different nations and epochs . In the third class , two parts only are devoted to contemporary art ; the medals illustrative of the French revolution of 1789 ; those of the `` Empire '' and of the Emperor `` Napoleon ; '' generally smacking of the florid and corrupt taste of that period , they are nevertheless curious as being often the sole evidence of the facts commemorated . There is , however , a manifest improvement in the late ones , and in them may be traced the transition from the independent ideas of the revolution to the subsequent submission to one man : and not less striking is the transition from a slip-shod style of art to a pedantic imitation of the antique . The `` Trsor de Numismatique et de Glyptique '' is the most scientific and important work of art which has been executed and achieved of late years in France . Our great public libraries may be proud of possessing so rich , so valuable , and so curious a collection , Most lovers of art have their favorite periods and well-beloved masters , but in this varied range of excellence it is difficult which to select for preference and admiration . The cameos have a beauty and _finesse_ which far surpass that of busts and statues ; they evince the skill of grouping , which , with rare exceptions , such as the Niobe and Laocoon , is seldom aimed at in the more important pieces of sculpture . Cameos , moreover , let us , as it were , into the secrets of indoor life . To these considerations we may add that these gems have had an immense influence on French modern art . The `` Apotheosis of Augustus '' especially , known to antiquarians as the `` Agate of Tiberius , '' the largest cameo in the world , and beautifully engraved the size of the original in this collection , may be traced in more than one of their late compositions . It is said that large medallions are a sign of taste either in the medalist or the monarch he is supposed to honor ; if so , Dupr and Varin have drawn a thick vail over the effulgence of Louis XIV . We would not , however , lose their wigs and smiles for a world of historiettes . But it is to be remembered that the more names are blazoned on works of art , the more art becomes deteriorated . In this respect the present collection shows the rapidly progressive march of this evil through twenty-five centuries -- a most instructive subject of contemplation . * * * * * THE CSIKOS OF HUNGARY . Of the chivalry , the gallantry , the splendor , the hospitality , the courage , and the love of liberty of the Hungarian noble or gentleman , no one doubts . Of his ideas of true constitutional freedom , or the zeal with which that or Hungarian independence has been maintained first through Turkish , and then German domination for some hundred years past , doubts may be entertained . Neither do the Hungarian peasantry or people reflect high credit on their `` natural superiors . '' Something should be deducted for the forced vivacity and straining after effect of the littrateur ; but this sketch of a large class of peasantry from Max Schlesinger 's `` War in Hungary , '' just published in London , must have some foundation in truth -- and very like the Red Indians or half-breeds of Spanish America the people look . `` The Csikos is a man who from his birth , somehow or other , finds himself seated upon a foal . Instinctively the boy remains fixed upon the animal 's back , and grows up in his seat as other children do in the cradle . `` The boy grows by degrees to a big horse-herd . To earn his livelihood , he enters the service of some nobleman , or of the Government , who possess in Hungary immense herds of wild horses . These herds range over a tract of many German square miles , for the most part some level plain , with wood , marsh , heath , and moorland ; they rove about where they please , multiply , and enjoy freedom of existence . Nevertheless , it is a common error to imagine that these horses , like a pack of wolves in the mountains , are left to themselves and nature , without any care or thought of man . Wild horses , in the proper sense of the term , are in Europe at the present day only met with in Bessarabia ; whereas the so-called wild herds in Hungary may rather be compared to the animals ranging in our large parks , which are attended to and watched . The deer are left to the illusion that they enjoy the most unbounded freedom ; and the deer-stalker , when in pursuit of his game , readily gives in to the same illusion . Or , to take another simile , the reader has only to picture to himself a well-constituted free state , whether a republic or a monarchy is all one . `` The Csikos has the difficult task of keeping a watchful eye upon these herds . He knows their strength , their habits , the spots they frequent ; he knows the birthday of every foal , and when the animal , fit for training , should be taken out of the herd . He has then a hard task upon his hands , compared with which a Grand-Ducal wild-boar hunt is child 's play ; for the horse has not only to be taken alive from the midst of the herd , but of course safe and sound in wind and limb . For this purpose , the celebrated whip of the Csikos serves him ; probably at some future time a few splendid specimens of this instrument will be exhibited in the Imperial Arsenal at Vienna , beside the sword of Scanderberg and the Swiss 'morning-stars . ' `` This whip has a stout handle from one and a half to two feet long , and a cord which measures not less than from eighteen to twenty-four feet in length . The cord is attached to a short iron chain , fixed to the top of the handle by an iron ring . A large leaden button is fastened to the end of the cord , and similar smaller buttons are distributed along it at distances , according to certain rules derived from experience , of which we are ignorant . Armed with this weapon , which the Csikos carries in his belt , together with a short grappling-iron or hook , he sets out on his horse-chase . Thus mounted and equipped without saddle or stirrup , he flies like the storm-wind over the heath , with such velocity that the grass scarcely bends under the horse 's hoof ; the step of his horse is not heard , and the whirling cloud of dust above his head alone marks his approach and disappearance . Although familiar with the use of a bridle , he despises such a troublesome article of luxury , and guides his horse with his voice , hands , and feet -- nay , it almost seems as if he directed it by the mere exercise of the will , as we move our feet to the right or left , backward or forward , without its ever coming into our head to regulate our movements by a leather strap . `` In this manner for hours he chases the flying herd , until at length he succeeds in approaching the animal which he is bent on catching . He then swings his whip round in immense circles , and throws the cord with such dexterity and precision that it twines around the neck of his victim . The leaden button at the end , and the knots along the cord , form a noose , which draws closer and tighter the faster the horse hastens on . `` See how he flies along with outstretched legs , his mane whistling in the wind , his eye darting fire , his mouth covered with foam , and the dust whirling aloft on all sides ! But the noble animal breathes shorter , his eye grows wild and staring , his nostrils are reddened with blood , the veins of his neck are distended like cords , his legs refuse longer service -- he sinks exhausted and powerless , a picture of death . But at the same instant the pursuing steed likewise stands still and fixed as if turned to stone . An instant , and the Csikos has flung himself off his horse upon the ground , and inclining his body backward , to keep the noose tight , he seizes the cord alternately with the right and left hand , shorter and shorter , drawing himself by it nearer and nearer to the panting and prostrate animal , till at last coming up to it he flings his legs across its back . He now begins to slacken the noose gently , allowing the creature to recover breath : but hardly does the horse feel this relief , before he leaps up , and darts off again in a wild course , as if still able to escape from his enemy . But the man is already bone of his bone and flesh of his flesh ; he sits fixed upon his neck as if grown to it , and makes the horse feel his power at will , by tightening or slackening the cord . A second time the hunted animal sinks upon the ground ; again he rises , and again breaks down , until at length , overpowered with exhaustion , he can no longer stir a limb ... . '' The foot-soldier who has discharged his musket is lost when opposed to the Csikos . His bayonet , with which he can defend himself against the Uhlans and Hussars , is here of no use to him ; all his practiced maneuvers and skill are unavailing against the long whip of his enemy , which drags him to the ground , or beats him to death with his leaden buttons ; nay , even if he had still a charge in his musket , he could sooner hit a bird on the wing than the Csikos , who , riding round and round him in wild bounds , dashes with his steed first to one side then to another , with the speed of lightning , so as to frustrate any aim . The horse-soldier , armed in the usual manner , fares not much better ; and wo to him if he meets a Csikos singly ! better to fall in with a pack of ravenous wolves . '' * * * * * THE PRESENT RELIGION OF PERSIA . An account of the Expedition for the survey of the rivers Euphrates and Tigris , carried on by order of the British Government , in the years 1835 , 1836 , and 1837 ; preceded by geographical and historical notices of the regions situated between the Nile and the Indus , with fourteen maps and charts , and ninety-seven plates , besides numerous woodcuts , has just appeared in London , in four large volumes , from the pen of Lieutenant-Colonel Chesney , R.A. , F.R.S. , & c. , commander of the Expedition . It is too comprehensive a work ever to be reprinted here , or to be much read , even in England , but it is undoubtedly very valuable as an authority . The following paragraphs from it describe the present state of religion in Persia : '' The title of Mlla is conferred on a candidate by some member of the order , after the requisite examination in theology and law ; and the person is then intrusted with the education of youth , as well as the administration of justice , and the practice of law . The Mllas sometimes possess sufficient power not only to influence the people at large , but even the King himself . `` Of this class of priests , those who have been successful in life are either placed in mosques or private families , waiting for advancement ; but a greater number are nominally attached to colleges , and live by the practice of astrology , fortune-telling , the sale of charms , talismans , & c. They who are not possessed of 