Produced by Suzanne Lybarger and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http : //www.pgdp.net ( This file was produced from images generously made available by The Internet Archive/Canadian Libraries ) SHORT STUDIES ON GREAT SUBJECTS . LONDON PRINTED BY SPOTTISWOODE AND CO. NEW-STREET SQUARE SHORT STUDIES ON GREAT SUBJECTS . BY JAMES ANTHONY FROUDE , M.A . LATE FELLOW OF EXETER COLLEGE , OXFORD . _SECOND EDITION._ LONDON : LONGMANS , GREEN , AND CO. 1867 . CONTENTS . PAGE THE SCIENCE OF HISTORY 1 TIMES OF ERASMUS AND LUTHER : Lecture I 26 Lecture II 50 Lecture III 75 THE INFLUENCE OF THE REFORMATION ON THE SCOTTISH CHARACTER 102 THE PHILOSOPHY OF CATHOLICISM 124 A PLEA FOR THE FREE DISCUSSION OF THEOLOGICAL DIFFICULTIES 133 CRITICISM AND THE GOSPEL HISTORY 159 THE BOOK OF JOB 185 SPINOZA 223 THE DISSOLUTION OF THE MONASTERIES 265 ENGLAND 'S FORGOTTEN WORTHIES 294 HOMER 334 THE LIVES OF THE SAINTS 363 REPRESENTATIVE MEN 384 REYNARD THE FOX 401 THE CAT 'S PILGRIMAGE : Part I 419 Part II 422 Part III 427 Part IV 430 FABLES : I . The Lions and the Oxen 433 II . The Farmer and the Fox 434 PARABLE OF THE BREAD-FRUIT TREE 436 COMPENSATION 439 THE SCIENCE OF HISTORY : A LECTURE DELIVERED AT THE ROYAL INSTITUTION FEBRUARY 5 , 1864 . Ladies and Gentlemen , -- I have undertaken to speak to you this evening on what is called the Science of History . I fear it is a dry subject ; and there seems , indeed , something incongruous in the very connection of such words as Science and History . It is as if we were to talk of the colour of sound , or the longitude of the rule-of-three . Where it is so difficult to make out the truth on the commonest disputed fact in matters passing under our very eyes , how can we talk of a science in things long past , which come to us only through books ? It often seems to me as if History was like a child 's box of letters , with which we can spell any word we please . We have only to pick out such letters as we want , arrange them as we like , and say nothing about those which do not suit our purpose . I will try to make the thing intelligible , and I will try not to weary you ; but I am doubtful of my success either way . First , however , I wish to say a word or two about the eminent person whose name is connected with this way of looking at History , and whose premature death struck us all with such a sudden sorrow . Many of you , perhaps , recollect Mr. Buckle as he stood not so long ago in this place . He spoke more than an hour without a note -- never repeating himself , never wasting words ; laying out his matter as easily and as pleasantly as if he had been talking to us at his own fireside . We might think what we pleased of Mr. Buckle 's views , but it was plain enough that he was a man of uncommon power ; and he had qualities also -- qualities to which he , perhaps , himself attached little value , as rare as they were admirable . Most of us , when we have hit on something which we are pleased to think important and original , feel as if we should burst with it . We come out into the book-market with our wares in hand , and ask for thanks and recognition . Mr. Buckle , at an early age , conceived the thought which made him famous , but he took the measure of his abilities . He knew that whenever he pleased he could command personal distinction , but he cared more for his subject than for himself . He was contented to work with patient reticence , unknown and unheard of , for twenty years ; and then , at middle life , he produced a work which was translated at once into French and German , and , of all places in the world , fluttered the dovecotes of the Imperial Academy of St. Petersburg . Goethe says somewhere , that as soon as a man has done anything remarkable , there seems to be a general conspiracy to prevent him from doing it again . He is feasted , fted , caressed ; his time is stolen from him by breakfasts , dinners , societies , idle businesses of a thousand kinds . Mr. Buckle had his share of all this ; but there are also more dangerous enemies that wait upon success like his . He had scarcely won for himself the place which he deserved , than his health was found shattered by his labours . He had but time to show us how large a man he was -- time just to sketch the outlines of his philosophy , and he passed away as suddenly as he appeared . He went abroad to recover strength for his work , but his work was done with and over . He died of a fever at Damascus , vexed only that he was compelled to leave it uncompleted . Almost his last conscious words were , 'My book , my book ! I shall never finish my book ! ' He went away as he had lived , nobly careless of himself , and thinking only of the thing which he had undertaken to do . But his labour had not been thrown away . Disagree with him as we might , the effect which he had already produced was unmistakable , and it is not likely to pass away . What he said was not essentially new . Some such interpretation of human things is as early as the beginning of thought . But Mr. Buckle , on the one hand , had the art which belongs to men of genius ; he could present his opinions with peculiar distinctness ; and , on the other hand , there is much in the mode of speculation at present current among us for which those opinions have an unusual fascination . They do not please us , but they excite and irritate us . We are angry with them ; and we betray , in being so , an uneasy misgiving that there may be more truth in those opinions than we like to allow . Mr. Buckle 's general theory was something of this kind : When human creatures began first to look about them in the world they lived in , there seemed to be no order in anything . Days and nights were not the same length . The air was sometimes hot and sometimes cold . Some of the stars rose and set like the sun ; some were almost motionless in the sky ; some described circles round a central star above the north horizon . The planets went on principles of their own ; and in the elements there seemed nothing but caprice . Sun and moon would at times go out in eclipse . Sometimes the earth itself would shake under men 's feet ; and they could only suppose that earth and air and sky and water were inhabited and managed by creatures as wayward as themselves . Time went on , and the disorder began to arrange itself . Certain influences seemed beneficent to men , others malignant and destructive , and the world was supposed to be animated by good spirits and evil spirits , who were continually fighting against each other , in outward nature and in human creatures themselves . Finally , as men observed more and imagined less , these interpretations gave way also . Phenomena the most opposite in effect were seen to be the result of the same natural law . The fire did not burn the house down if the owners of it were careful , but remained on the hearth and boiled the pot ; nor did it seem more inclined to burn a bad man 's house down than a good man 's , provided the badness did not take the form of negligence . The phenomena of nature were found for the most part to proceed in an orderly , regular way , and their variations to be such as could be counted upon . From observing the order of things , the step was easy to cause and effect . An eclipse , instead of being a sign of the anger of Heaven , was found to be the necessary and innocent result of the relative position of sun , moon , and earth . The comets became bodies in space , unrelated to the beings who had imagined that all creation was watching them and their doings . By degrees , caprice , volition , all symptoms of arbitrary action , disappeared out of the universe ; and almost every phenomenon in earth or heaven was found attributable to some law , either understood or perceived to exist . Thus nature was reclaimed from the imagination . The first fantastic conception of things gave way before the moral ; the moral in turn gave way before the natural ; and at last there was left but one small tract of jungle where the theory of law had failed to penetrate -- the doings and characters of human creatures themselves . There , and only there , amidst the conflicts of reason and emotion , conscience and desire , spiritual forces were still conceived to exist . Cause and effect were not traceable when there was a free volition to disturb the connection . In all other things , from a given set of conditions , the consequences necessarily followed . With man , the word law changed its meaning ; and instead of a fixed order , which he could not choose but follow , it became a moral precept , which he might disobey if he dared . This it was which Mr. Buckle disbelieved . The economy which prevailed throughout nature , he thought it very unlikely should admit of this exception . He considered that human beings acted necessarily from the impulse of outward circumstances upon their mental and bodily condition at any given moment . Every man , he said , acted from a motive ; and his conduct was determined by the motive which affected him most powerfully . Every man naturally desires what he supposes to be good for him ; but to do well , he must know well . He will eat poison , so long as he does not know that it is poison . Let him see that it will kill him , and he will not touch it . The question was not of moral right and wrong . Once let him be thoroughly made to feel that the thing is destructive , and he will leave it alone by the law of his nature . His virtues are the result of knowledge ; his faults , the necessary consequence of the want of it . A boy desires to draw . He knows nothing about it : he draws men like trees or houses , with their centre of gravity anywhere . He makes mistakes , because he knows no better . We do not blame him . Till he is better taught he can not help it . But his instruction begins . He arrives at straight lines ; then at solids ; then at curves . He learns perspective , and light and shade . He observes more accurately the forms which he wishes to represent . He perceives effects , and he perceives the means by which they are produced . He has learned what to do ; and , in part , he has learned how to do it . His after-progress will depend on the amount of force which his nature possesses ; but all this is as natural as the growth of an acorn . You do not preach to the acorn that it is its duty to become a large tree ; you do not preach to the art-pupil that it is his duty to become a Holbein . You plant your acorn in favourable soil , where it can have light and air , and be sheltered from the wind ; you remove the superfluous branches , you train the strength into the leading shoots . The acorn will then become as fine a tree as it has vital force to become . The difference between men and other things is only in the largeness and variety of man 's capacities ; and in this special capacity , that he alone has the power of observing the circumstances favourable to his own growth , and can apply them for himself . Yet , again , with this condition , -- that he is not , as is commonly supposed , free to choose whether he will make use of these appliances or not . When he knows what is good for him , he will choose it ; and he will judge what is good for him by the circumstances which have made him what he is . And what he would do , Mr. Buckle supposed that he always had done . His history had been a natural growth as much as the growth of the acorn . His improvement had followed the progress of his knowledge ; and , by a comparison of his outward circumstances with the condition of his mind , his whole proceedings on this planet , his creeds and constitutions , his good deeds and his bad , his arts and his sciences , his empires and his revolutions , would be found all to arrange themselves into clear relations of cause and effect . If , when Mr. Buckle pressed his conclusions , we objected the difficulty of finding what the truth about past times really was , he would admit it candidly as far as concerned individuals ; but there was not the same difficulty , he said , with masses of men . We might disagree about the characters of Julius or Tiberius Csar , but we could know well enough the Romans of the Empire . We had their literature to tell us how they thought ; we had their laws to tell us how they governed ; we had the broad face of the world , the huge mountainous outline of their general doings upon it , to tell us how they acted . He believed it was all reducible to laws , and could be made as intelligible as the growth of the chalk cliffs or the coal measures . And thus consistently Mr. Buckle cared little for individuals . He did not believe ( as some one has said ) that the history of mankind is the history of its great men . Great men with him were but larger atoms , obeying the same impulses with the rest , only perhaps a trifle more erratic . With them or without them , the course of things would have been much the same . As an illustration of the truth of his view , he would point to the new science of Political Economy . Here already was a large area of human activity in which natural laws were found to act unerringly . Men had gone on for centuries trying to regulate trade on moral principles . They would fix wages according to some imaginary rule of fairness ; they would fix prices by what they considered things ought to cost ; they encouraged one trade or discouraged another , for moral reasons . They might as well have tried to work a steam-engine on moral reasons . The great statesmen whose names were connected with these enterprises might have as well legislated that water should run up-hill . There were natural laws , fixed in the conditions of things : and to contend against them was the old battle of the Titans against the gods . As it was with political economy , so it was with all other forms of human activity ; and as the true laws of political economy explained the troubles which people fell into in old times , because they were ignorant of them , so the true laws of human nature , as soon as we knew them , would explain their mistakes in more serious matters , and enable us to manage better for the future . Geographical position , climate , air , soil , and the like , had their several influences . The northern nations are hardy and industrious , because they must till the earth if they would eat the fruits of it , and because the temperature is too low to make an idle life enjoyable . In the south , the soil is more productive , while less food is wanted and fewer clothes ; and in the exquisite air , exertion is not needed to make the sense of existence delightful . Therefore , in the south we find men lazy and indolent . True , there are difficulties in these views ; the home of the languid Italian was the home also of the sternest race of whom the story of mankind retains a record . And again , when we are told that the Spaniards are superstitious , because Spain is a country of earthquakes , we remember Japan , the spot in all the world where earthquakes are most frequent 