Divya Venkatasubramaniam, also known by her stage name Kanika or Kaniha,[1][2] is an Indian film actress.

Kanika made her debut in the 2002 Tamil film Five Star, she went on to work in other South Indian film industries, including Telugu, Malayalam and Kannada, as well. She is perhaps best known for her performances as Eashwari in her debut film Five Star, Gayathri in Varalaru - History of Godfather and Thenmozhi in Autograph. She has had a successful run in the Malayalam film industry with back to back hits Bhagyadevatha and Pazhassi Raja.
TVS Matriculation Higher Secondary School was established in 1972 with 40 students. It provides education to the inhabitants of Madurai and its surroundings in Tamil Nadu, India. It is governed by a council named Lakshmi Vidya Sangham, constituted by the descendants of the founder of the TVS Group, T. V. Sundaram Iyengar. The school has a strength of about 4,906 pupils, 201 teaching staff and additional parent tutors. The school functions in two shifts for all classes from the lower kindergarten to Std XII. There is also a separate nursery school near the main campus.[citation needed]

Contents  [hide] 
1	History
2	Committee members
3	The school day
4	Campus
5	Campus Gallery
6	Curriculum
7	Extracurricular activities
8	The Physical Education Department
9	Skating Ground
10	Sporting events
11	Committees
12	Student Council
13	Teacher Training Centre
14	LOSA
15	External links
Lakshmi Vidya Sangham is a registered society under the Societies Registration Act XXI of 1860 and amended by Madras Act XXXIV of 1954 on 6 June, 1964. It was named after Srimathi. Lakshmi Ammal, wife of T. V. Sundaram Iyengar.

TVS Matriculation Higher Secondary School, originally known as TVS Lakshmi Matriculation Higher Secondary School, was founded by LVS. The school was registered with just 40 students in 1972 and today has over 4,700 students. Shri. N. Sundram was the first correspondent, followed in 1968 by Shri. K. Surya Narayanan
The School operates in two shifts, commonly called the Forenoon Shift (FN) and the Afternoon Shift (AN). The Forenoon Shift works between 7:00 am and 12:20 pm. Students from the interior of the Madurai town and the other parts of the city, past the Vaigai River are usually enrolled in this shift, largely to avoid the peak hour traffic in the evening. Pupils on this shift make the greatest use of the bus fleet; almost 95% of the fleet is used for transporting FN shift students. The Afternoon Shift works between 12:40 and 6:00 pm. The Students residing near the School are usually enrolled in this shift, with only 4 areas served by buses.

The BUS BAY
The Bus Bay
The School has a large bus bay for parking and boarding the buses. The Bus Service is managed by a separate committee and the buses are under contract from the Senthamarai Agency.