O Kadhal Kanmani (English: Oh Love, Apple of my Eye), also known as OK Kanmani, is a 2015 Indian Tamil romantic drama film written, directed and produced by Mani Ratnam.[2] The film stars Dulquer Salmaan and Nithya Menen in the lead roles, portraying a young couple in a live-in relationship in Mumbai. Prakash Raj and Leela Samson play supporting roles as an older couple in the film, portraying the younger couple's landlords. The film was said to be a "reflection of the modern mindset of urban India", dealing with issues such as marriage and traditional values.[3][4][5]

The film featured music composed by A. R. Rahman, cinematography by P. C. Sreeram and editing by Sreekar Prasad. Prior to the film's release, the soundtrack was well received and the promotional activity of the film on social media, also garnered praise.[6] O Kadhal Kanmani was released on 17 April 2015, along with its dubbed Telugu version OK Bangaram, and won positive reviews from critics, praising the lead pair's performances and the quality of the film's technical aspects.[7] The film went on to become a financial success at the box office, performing extremely well in multiplexes in India and overseas.[8]

Aditya Varadarajan is a video game developer who accidentally meets Taara Kalingarayar at his relative's wedding. He later finds out she is planning to pursue her studies in Paris. They soon begin to call each other often, go out together, and start to fall in love during a holiday they take together. They agree that marriage is not for them and decide to have a live-in relationship instead, and Taara moves into Adhi's place, rented from Ganapathy. They wish to spend their time with each other before they go their separate ways for their respective careers. Taara and Adhi live happily, being playful with each other.

One midnight, Tara has a conversation with Ganapathy. She tells him that she might get her visa approved for going to Paris, and that it's hard for her to leave Adhi and go far away. The next day Taara goes to Jaipur for her business, and Aditya starts to miss her terribly. Upon seeing the love and patience his houseowner Ganapathy has for his wife, Bhavani, an Alzheimer patient, who one day even forgets her own house address, they begin to understand the importance of each others presence in their life.

Soon, Adhi is selected to develop his skills in video games and to go United States. He tells his colleague that it's hard for him to leave Taara. The next day, both of them make an agreement to enjoy themselves to the maximum for the 10 days left before they separate. Nearing the last day, they begin to have little fights and arguments, which don't last long.

One day, Bhavani goes missing again, as she did when she forgot her house address. While looking for her, they continue arguing about their relationship and finally Adhi proposes to Taara and they decide to get married. Post marriage, both of them continue to accomplish their own dreams, one in Paris, another in US. And they live happily, married and in love.

ulquer Salmaan would play the lead role in their forthcoming production and it was reported that Mani Ratnam's regular collaborator, composer A. R. Rahman would also work on the film.[10][11] Vairamuthu renewed his collaboration with Mani Ratnam and A. R. Rahman to write song lyrics, and stated that the director had told him the film's plot concisely within three minutes and described it as a "beautiful love story" about "two characters and their love and mindset".[12] P. C. Sreeram joined the team later in the month, collaborating with the director after Alaipayuthey (2000).[13] During the making of the film, the cinematographer hinted that the film has contents on the lines of Ratnam's Alaipayuthey (2000), and that it was also loosely based on a real life incident.[14] In October 2014, the film was revealed to have a working title of OK Kanmani.[15][16]

Mani Ratnam revealed that he had the fascination for making a film on the gaming culture before Kadal, and set the story in Mumbai as it was India's gaming hub and a place where a live-in relationship can happen 