-----------------------random--------
The Awards are categorised in three sections; Feature Films, Non-Feature Films and Best Writing on Cinema. With each section having its individual aims, Feature Film and Non-Feature Film sections aim at encouraging the production of films of aesthetic and technical excellence and social relevance, contributing to the understanding and appreciation of cultures of different regions of the country in cinematic form, thereby promoting unity and integrity of the nation. The Best Writing on Cinema section aims to encourage the study and appreciation of cinema as an art form and dissemination of information and critical appreciation of the art form through publication of various books, articles, reviews, newspaper coverage and studies.[6]

In addition, a lifetime achievement award, named after the father of Indian cinema Dadasaheb Phalke, is awarded to a film personality for the outstanding contribution to the growth and development of Indian Cinema.[6][7]
-----------------------------27------------
Toronto / London
Drexel Biddle, Publisher

NEW YORK 67 Fifth Avenue
PHILADELPHIA 228 South Fourth St.
SAN FRANCISCO 319-325 Sansome St.

1900


  Copyright, 1900
  By A. J. DREXEL BIDDLE


  Press of
  DREXEL BIDDLE, PHILADELPHIA


  "_Have you not seen in the woods on a late autumn morning
  a poor fungus or mushroom--a plant without any solidity, nay,
  that seemed nothing but a soft mush or jelly--by its constant
  total and inconceivably gentle pushing, manage to break its way
  up through the frosty ground, and actually to lift a hard crust
  on its head? It is the symbol of the power of kindness._"

      Emerson.


PREFACE.


No attempt has been made to do more than to put in popular language the
statements of experienced botanists, and so to arrange the matter as to
aid beginners in their work.

Thanks are due to Mr. Harold Wingate for his suggestions and corrections
of the manuscript; to Mr. C. G. Lloyd for permission to print from his
photographs; to Miss Laura C. Detwiller for her paintings from nature,
which have been here reproduced; and also to Mrs. Harrison Streeter and
Miss Mary W. Nichols for their encouragement of the undertaking and
suggestions in furtherance of its success.


CONTENTS.

  [Transcriber's Note:
  The structure of the Table of Contents does not correspond perfectly
  to the book itself, but all page numbers are correct.]

                     
--------------55 lower----------------
Lord FISHER and Sir
HENRY JACKSON, this was no small achievement. Thanks to the second element
he has written a book which scarcely contains a dull page. Whether he is
giving us a pen-picture of Mr. CHURCHILL conducting Admiralty business from
a sick-bed, with his head swathed in flannel and an immense cigar
protruding from the bandage; or explaining how the legend of Lord
KITCHENER'S survival arose from a trivial error that caused the
--------55 upper-------------
A tough hide and some facility of expression"--to quote the author's
modest estimate of his qualifications--have enabled Rear-Admiral Sir
DOUGLAS BROWNRIGG to make his _Indiscretions of the Naval Censor_ (CASSELL)
the liveliest book of the War that has come my way. Thanks to the first
element in his make-up he managed to retain his difficult and delicate post
throughout the War, 
---------random--------------
It is one of several awards presented for feature films. The recipients of Special Jury Award are awarded with Rajat Kamal (Silver Lotus), cash prize of ?200,000 (US$3,000) and certificate of merit; whereas recipients of Special Mention are awarded with certificate of merit.

The award was instituted in 1978, at 26th National Film Awards and awarded annually for films produced in the year across the country, in all Indian languages.
Award includes 'Rajat Kamal' (Silver Lotus), cash prize of ?200,000 (US$3,000) and certificate of merit for the recipients of Special Jury Award; whereas recipients of Special Mention are awarded with certificate of merit. This award considers all the aspects of film making than individual area. Following are the award winners over the years:
