--------------not plagia,from srcs bynd 100 only---------

------107----------
The next morning we started for Kaschbach. The place looked even more
dismal than the one we had visited the day previous. In one of the huts
a weaver, with a swollen arm in a sling, led us into a corner of the
room. On a bunk covered with straw and rags lay a woman with a little
baby near her. Its body was covered with a terrible rash, perfectly
bare, almost hidden within the floor rags. The shy father, himself in
pain, stood near, the personification of helplessness. If only there
were food in the house! The district physician? He would have been
compelled to prescribe 
---------200--------------
The commercial intercourse of the two countries is also
arranged upon the most liberal and advantageous basis. Switzerland has
remained tranquil, with the exception of a riot in the Canton of Berne,
occasioned by the attempted extradition, on the part 
---------------------------------
At the last accounts, one party had
penetrated a distance of sixty miles into the country, a second was
engaged in an examination of the river, and a third had set out for
Tehuantepec, on the Pacific Coast.


BRITISH AMERICA.

The lawyers in Lower Canada have been making strikes and holding
meetings to protest against the imposition of the new tariff regulating
their fees. The Bar of Quebec and of Trois Rivières have struck,
declining to serve their clients until the legality of the tariff shall
be decided by the Court of Appeals. It has been decided to admit
American reprints of English copyright works into Canada, on paying 20
per cent. duty, which is to be paid over by the Custom House to the
English authors or proprietors of copyright, who are required to furnish
a list of their works. Under this law, American reprints will still be
much cheaper than English editions, and popular English authors may
therefore look forward to some increase of their revenue. The Imperial
Cabinet has also assented to the Post-Office Law, enacted at the last
Session of the Canadian Legislature, and establishing a uniform rate of
three pence for single letters throughout the British Provinces.

Meetings have been held in Toronto, protesting against the intended
removal of the Seat of Government from that city, while, on the other
hand, the French members have resolved not to vote the supplies unless
it is removed to Quebec in the spring. Lord Elgin, however, has stated
that the Seat of Government will be transferred to Quebec at the
completion of its two years in 
----------------------246-----------------------

Distributed Proofreading Team (http://www.pgdp.net)


STUDIES IN THE PSYCHOLOGY OF SEX, VOLUME II

   Sexual Inversion

by

HAVELOCK ELLIS

1927


PREFACE TO THE THIRD EDITION.


It has been remarked by Professor Wilhelm Ostwald that the problem of
homosexuality is a problem left over to us by the Middle Ages, which for
five hundred years dealt with inverts as it dealt with heretics and
witches. To regard the matter thus is to emphasize its social and
humanitarian interest rather than its biological and psychological
significance. It is no doubt this human interest of the question of
inversion, rather than its scientific importance, great as the latter is,
which is mainly responsible for the remarkable activity with which the
study of homosexuality has been carried on during recent years.


