--------------random 107-------------
Our hostess could boast of
the luxury of a coffee mill even, and, after she had ground and brewed
the coffee, we were invited to partake of it, which we gratefully did.
Local and general affairs were talked over; the man, quite talkative,
but careful and reticent in his remarks, especially when religious and
political questions were approached. His remarks were kept within
careful lines so as not to offend. Hauptmann said afterwards that he had
noticed such cautiousness in all weavers. No doubt it had grown out of
the great poverty that often brought out diffidence and reticence toward
strangers.

Hauptmann sat on a low stool, and, while we were sipping our coffee, the
woman petted him tenderly on the brow. "Yes, yes, young man, Want, the
awfulness of Want, but we cannot complain." At our departure, she
pointed to a hut nearby and said: "The people in there are nearly
starved."
---------------random---------
Baahubali: The Beginning (English: The One With Strong Arms) is a 2015 Indian epic historical fiction film directed by S. S. Rajamouli. Produced by Shobu Yarlagadda and Prasad Devineni, it is the first of two cinematic parts and was simultaneously made in Telugu and Tamil.[5][6][7] The film stars Prabhas, Rana Daggubati, Tamannaah and Anushka Shetty in lead roles. Sathyaraj, Ramya Krishnan, Nassar, Adivi Sesh, Tanikella Bharani and Sudeep appear in supporting roles. The soundtrack and background score were composed by M. M. Keeravani while the cinematography, editing, art direction and visual effects supervision were done by K. K. Senthil Kumar, Kotagiri Venkateswara Rao, Sabu Cyril and V. Srinivas Mohan respectively.

The film, which was made on a budget of ? 120 crore (1.2 billion), released worldwide on 10 July 2015 to positive reviews from critics, became the highest grossing Indian film within India,[8] and became the third highest grossing Indian film globally. It became the first South Indian film to gross over ? 650 crore (6.5 billion) worldwide and the first non-Hindi film to gross over ? 100 crore (1 billion) in the dubbed Hindi version. It is also the highest grossing Telugu film of all time. Also, it is the highest grossing South Indian film at the global box office.[9]
-------------------45-------------
Team


LOVE AT SECOND SIGHT

by ADA LEVERSON

First published London, 1916

(Book Three of THE LITTLE OTTLEYS)


TO TACITUS


CHAPTER I

An appalling crash, piercing shrieks, a loud, unequal quarrel on a
staircase, the sharp bang of a door....

Edith started up from her restful corner on the blue sofa by the fire,
where she had been thinking about her guest, and rushed to the door.

'Archie--Archie! Come here directly! What's that noise?'

A boy of ten came calmly into the room.

'It wasn't me that made the noise,' he said, 'it was Madame Frabelle.'

His mother looked at him. He was a handsome, fair boy with clear grey
eyes that looked you straight in the face without telling you anything
at all, long eyelashes that softened, but gave a sly 
----------------45--------------
Edith said, with assumed solemnity.

He looked grave. 'Well, she needn't have quarrelled.'

'But isn't she very kind to you?'

'Yes, she isn't bad sometimes. I like it when she tells me lies about
what her husband used to do--I mean stories. She's not a bad sort.... Is
she a homeless refugette, Mother?'

'Not exactly that. She's a widow, and she's staying with us, and we must
be nice to her. Now, you won't forget again, will you?'

'Right. But I can mend it.'

'I think I'd better go up and see her,' said Edith.

Archie politely opened the door for his mother.

'I shouldn't, if I were you,' he said.

Edith slowly went back to the fire.

'Well, I'll leave her a little while, perhaps. Now do go and do
something useful.'

'What, useful? Gracious! I haven't got much more of my holidays,
Mother.'

'That's no reason why you should spend your time in worrying everybody,
and smashing the musical instruments of guests that are under
your roof.'

He looked up at the ceiling and smiled, 
------------random---------------
The National Film Awards is the most prominent film award ceremonies in India. Established in 1954, it has been administered, along with the International Film Festival of India and the Indian Panorama, by the Indian government's Directorate of Film Festivals since 1973.[1][2]

Every year, a national panel appointed by the government selects the winning entry, and the award ceremony is held in New Delhi, where the President of India presents the awards. This is followed by the inauguration of the National Film Festival, where the award-winning films are screened for the public. Declared for films produced in the previous year across the country, they hold the distinction of awarding merit to the best of Indian cinema overall, as well as presenting awards for the best films in each region and language of the country. Due to the national scale of the National Film Awards, it is considered the Indian equivalent of the American Academy Awards.[3][4]
--------------45----------------
as if pleased at this way of
putting it.

'I suppose she's very glad to have a roof to her mouth--I mean to her
head,' he hurriedly corrected. 'But, Mother, she isn't poor. She has an
amber necklace. Besides, she gave Dilly sixpence the other day for not
being frightened of a cow. If she can afford to give a little girl
sixpence for every animal she says she isn't afraid of!'...

'That only proves she's kind. And I didn't say she was poor; that's not
the point. We must be nice and considerate to anyone staying with
